## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting Feb 22, 2018

**Present**

* Lex Nederbragt
* Ethan White ðŸ‘¨â€ðŸ’»
* Karen Cranston
* Tracy Teal
* Elizabeth Wickes
* Sue McClatchy
* Kate Hertweck
* Amy Hodge
* Mateusz Kuzak
* Raniere Silva


**Minutes**

* **013/18 Scheduling face-to-face EC meeting**
    * Everyone except Ethan and Karen are planning to attend CarpentryCon
    * Meeting around CarpentryCon
        * would imply not having Ethan White being present (but he is OK with that)
        * Tracy canâ€™t do right after CC
    * Need to consider visa/passport issues for some
    * A quick poll showed the latter half of June as being good for everyone
    * **Action item**: Karen will follow up
    * Potential hosts: Davis, Illinois, Amsterdam (Utrecht), Gainesville, Manchester
* **014/18 Plan of action for mission & vision (M&V) statement**
    * ByLaws committee feels the M&V work should be done by a larger group with a lot of community input (Sue: â€˜involve community early and oftenâ€™)
    * ByLaws group is a bit dependent on the M&V for the process
    * Tracy proposes a â€˜listening tourâ€™, who are our members, beyond certified instructors, use that as part of guiding M&V
    * We need to decide on M&V for the Carpentries as a whole versus of the lesson organisations
    * Joint effort of EC and staff?
    * Aim to finalise this during the face-to-face meeting
    * Tracy proposes task force to put together a proposal for the listening tour, collection of community input
        * How are we going to get the information
        * How are we going to use the information
        * Connect to any research opportunities (e.g. assessment) -> Tracy to talk to staff
        * Put forward to EC and staff
        * Elizabeth, Amy volunteered
        * Plan ready in about a month (next meeting?)
        * Community responses back for example April 16th
    * Tracy has temporary M&V she uses for the moment: "The Carpentries is building community teaching core computational and data skills for efficient, shareable and reproducible research. They accomplish this by running accessible, inclusive training workshops; teaching openly available, high-quality, domain-tailored lessons; and fostering an active, inclusive, diverse instructor community that promotes and models reproducible research as a community norm."
* **015/18** **Report from treasurer**
    * Elizabeth Williams, Carpentries Business Administrator, put together reports
    * Almost $400k in the bank, soon the 2017 Sloan Grant, $250k will be added (this is 50% of the grant, the other 50% comes later this year), 3-4 month of operating costs (mainly salaries)
    * Numbers for the 20 Feb. 2017 - 20 Feb. 2018 period
        * Income $680k (+ $250k Sloan grant)
        * Expenses close to $600k; mostly salaries (75%)
        * Including Sloan grant, surplus of $133k
        * Until end of 2017 on Moore Foundation grant (DC)
    * Looking ahead
        * Goal for 2018 is to bring in at least as much in membership, fees, donations, as spent on staff without relying on grants in particular, and use grants for specific projects
        * Projected income for 2018 is already higher than for 2018 (more members)
        * Not all grant money listed here, there is money set aside for us as subcontractors, but that does not come in until we do the work, this adds up to several $100k
        * Quarterly operating expense is $200k (Â¼ of $800k), should be in the bank at all times (both â€˜best practiceâ€™ as well as requirement from CI)
    * Many thanks to Sue and Elizabeth Williams for putting this together!
    * Sue is planning monthly reports to the EC as long as we are in the transition phase to the Carpentries & CI
Action items:
* Sue will put financial documents in the EC Google Drive folder
* Karen will make private Google drive folder for private EC items
* Karen to put out a poll for face-to-face dates
