### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting May 18, 2021

* Present: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad FÃ¶rstner, Kari
  Jordan, Paula Andrea Martinez, Lex Nederbragt, Aleksandra Nenadic,
  Michael Smith, Sarah Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi
* Apologies: None
* Guest: Talisha Sutton-Kennedy (Core Team, for the first agenda item)

#### 21/22 - Review Q1 financial report

* Talishan provided a 3-slide overview of the Q1 Financials
  * Q1 (Jan 1-Mar 31): Income a little less than anticipated in the budget, expenses were a little higher than anticipated.
    * Overall close to what we anticipated in the budget.
    * Operating close to our budget
    * Income for workshops and instructor training lower than our
      budget goal but income from memberships was higher than we >
      budgeted for so this balanced out.
    * Expenses were comparatively high - Amazon ended the program to
      support AWS (Amazon Web Services) instances and this has been
      higher than anticipated. Looked into how these instances were
      set up and decreased costs since we are not able to be sponsored
      under the Amazon project anymore.
    * Consulting Expenses were also higher than expected in fees
      associated with the contracts for core team members outside the
      US. Adjusted this in the budget and need to consider how to
      change outreach and donations plan to cover this.
    * Question: Some of the unexpected costs are one-offs, hiring for example.
    * Several alternative funding options for cloud computing and for
      AWS itself including Cyverse or the European Open Source Cloud
      AWS could be used. Maybe a task force will be set up to compile
      the possibilities and their pros and cons.
  * For more detailed information please feel free to review the
    Budget-Actuals tab of the 2021 Budget.

#### 21/23 - Rubric for Urgent Public Statements from The Carpentries (Communications Committee)

* [Vote on
  motion](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/62) -
  motion passed
* Omar Khan (Communications Manager) drafted the document
* Aim to have clear workflow to use
* Confirmation that the Core Team has seen and is okay with it. All
  their feedback has been incorporated. It is very helpful for the
  Core Team and this helps make it clear when we should make a
  statement and when we shouldn't.
* ACTION ITEM: So far it is not always clear who is responsible for
  each tasks. Suggestion to add who will be responsible for each
  task. Kari will work with communications manager on adding clarity
  on who is the responsible party for each task
* Request was for a rubric but this is not a rubric, is that an issue?
  No - it did not end up needing a rubric but it does fit what the
  need was about - i.e. general guidelines about how/when to address
  issues that come up.

#### 21/24 - Generative discussion: is the Executive Council micromanaging too much?

* Inspiration for this item - Setup the Committee and Task Forces and
  policy that every new committee/task force needs to be approved by
  the Executive Council. Should this be the Core Team?
* When we opened an issue for feedback the question came up if
  Maintainers are considered a committee? Should this be decided by
  the Core Team or Executive Council?
* Things we maybe should be working on: If we should be adding new
  lesson programs? Are we done? What happens with incubator lessons?
  Updates to existing curricula?
* The Executive Council should focus on managing governance, strategic
  direction, finances, core values. Task Forces and governance
  committees are a governance issue while running them is up to the
  Core Team. We aim to write a Blog post about what the purpose of a
  board / Executive Council is in order that people can understand.

#### 21/25 - Decision making transparency (Governance Committee)

* See also [this blog post on Carpentries governance](https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/09/executive-committee-structure/) from 2018.
* [Vote on
  motion](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/61) -
  motion passed
* Survey Responses have been collected from Core Team and past and
  current Executive Council to put this together - decisions, advice,
  information given
* Resulted in a small list of points in each section. You can see the
  summary in the motion.
* The Executive Council's Standing Committees should go through all
  the issues that are assigned to them and use this framework to
  decide if we should be working on it or sending it back to Kari/Core
  Team to make decisions on. Encourage you to do this and we can
  probably close out some long standing issues.
* The Document is well put together. Thanks to Paula! We have to be
  careful about GitHub and the way GitHub is used. This is one place
  we need to change how we practice. In most boards, the decisions are
  communicated in the minutes. We have to decide about how to
  communicate and how we place things in github and then share them
  subsequently with the community.
* This also intertwines with the previous discussion. The CoC is
  governance that should be approved by the Executive Council.
* Question: The suggestion says the Executive Council should be
  informed about any groups that have powers that affect the by-laws
  which includes lesson programs and task forces. When we form
  committees, this is tied to the by-laws. Due to this we need to
  review if the function of the group is tied to the by-laws anyway.
  If not, then it is something the Core Team can manage. This needs to
  go into the handbook / governance page
  * Aleks did a [PR on to update standing committee
  structure](https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/pull/727)
  * ACTION ITEM: Aleks will apply change to handbook not within the
  by-laws (section above the by-laws) and Paula will check.

#### 21/26 - Planning the upcoming virtual retreat (June 7th-9th)

* We have scheduled 3 different meetings for each of the time regions,
  4 hours in the morning with a 30 min break.
* We will organize activities for each session.
* ACTION ITEM: A draft agenda will be completed - 1 week to
  suggest/finalize the topics and then Paula and Kari work to assign
  responsibilities. People in the session to decide who is leading and
  time to spend on those topics.

#### Non-verbal updates

* The [motion to approve the Executive Council Standing Committees
  charters for
  2021](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/57)
  passed. Thanks everyone for voting!
* For the June Executive Council meeting, we had planned to address
  #117 "Lessons Teaching Closed Source/Proprietary Tools". However,
  the issue was resolved asynchronously in the mean time.
* The Executive Council [Yearly
  Timeline](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/executive-council.html#yearly-timeline)
  has been updated: the planning for reviewing the quarterly financial
  reports has been adjusted to fit with the organisation's timeline.
