### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council Discussion meeting October 19th, 2021

**Present**: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad FÃ¶rstner, Kari
Jordan, Aleksandra Nenadic, Michael Smith, Sarah Stevens, Masami
Yamaguchi

**Apologies**: Lex Nederbragt, Paula Andrea Martinez

## 21/43 Funding updates

- Moore Foundation grant to support curriculum development and
  incubator support. Expect to receive a lump sum payment of grant
  from December 1, 2021.

- CZI to support African Capacity Development Manager on Core Team, 6
  memberships for South Africa and South America.

- Sponsorship Program announced week of 10/11. The Executive Director
  (Kari) will be reaching out to potential sponsors to jump start the
  program. The
  [[Sponsorships\@carpentries.org]{.ul}](mailto:Sponsorships@carpentries.org)
  email account was created to manage. The Executive Council members
  are asked to share any potential sponsors for their outreach to the
  email.

## 21/44 Generative Discussion: Organisational Membership model

- Introduction of the Membership Pricing Pilot (presentation slides
  shared on-screen) by Al Obayuwana.

- The current membership model was shared (Bronze - Platinum).
  Workshops are not fully considered (in pricing) in the current
  model.

- Director conducted a listening tour and considered challenges and
  opportunities (Chopportunities). This included understanding the
  accounting behind how our pricing structure comes together. Also
  recognized that not all members are utilising all of their member
  benefits. Feedback shared included that we may be underpricing our
  offerings and memberships, and willingness to determine how we can
  serve more populations.

- Quarterly Project focussed on a la-carte pricing. Team recommends a
  20% increase in a la carte pricing structure. We were able to able
  to share models and get feedback from community members. Also
  increased discount on additional coordinate workshops from 33% to
  50%.

- Introduced Sliding Scale and Financial Assistance based on regional
  needs (access and inclusion) -
  [[https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/rankings_by_country.jsp]{.ul}](https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/rankings_by_country.jsp)

  - Financial Assistance package (application created) for members
    to apply for 25%, 35% or 50% scaled price for a specific
    country.

  - Core Team is considering membership benefits that are curriculum
    development related (including training materials), as this
    may be of interest to current and potential members.

## 21/45 Generative Discussion: Community involvement in decision making

- Background:

  - in December 2016, more than a year before The Carpentries was
    formed, a community member voiced concerns about community
    involvement in decision making in the new organisation after
    the (then already) planned merger

  - We have also discussed this issue at our [[March Executive
    Council
    meeting]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/2021/EC-minutes-2021-03-16.md#2114---generative-modemission-moment-how-and-when-to-involve-the-community-in-ec-decision-making)
    but did not really draw a conclusion

  - The following Github [[initial
    issue]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/5#issue-195287084)
    and the following comments to it: the first two paragraphs of
    \[[[1]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/5#issuecomment-267049329)\]
    and the whole of
    \[[[2]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/5#issuecomment-267134460)\] -
    feel free to read the entire thread and its references but
    these three comments are the most important (Note that "SWC"
    stand for "Software Carpentry" and "DC" for "Data Carpentry")

- The following following questions were discussed:

  - Are the concerns raised in the issue valid?

    - Generally speaking, the Executive Council believes the
        original issues raised in 2016 and beyond are valid.

  - Have The Carpentries succeeded in addressing these concerns?

    - Executive Council members shared feedback on current
        Executive Council responses in governance to this issue,
        including core values management, committee engagement and
        input request from the community based on when the issue
        was first raised in 2016. The Executive Council has worked
        to be more transparent in community to the broader
        community.

    - The issue may be steeped in "what is the future of the
        Carpentries" from a management perspective from 2016
        versus a transparency issue. Using GitHub as the core tool
        for communication and governance should be considered in
        how we manage forward.

  - How, if at all, should we follow up?

    - The Executive Director (Kari) will follow up with the
        Executive Council Chair (Lex) based on Executive Council
        feedback to draft a community response that allows us to
        close this issue. We should connect the dots on actions
        that the Executive Council has taken to address this issue
        to our outward community response.

  - The suggestion was made to involve regional communities to ask
    questions and invite for input that can be filtered and passed
    back up. As regional communities run community calls - and use
    this in addition to GitHub and other channels. Kari responded
    that a member of the Core Team is managing this process
    currently.

## 21/46 Discussion: Standing Committee Assessment

- We have started with Standing Committees this Executive Council term
  and would like to review them

- The Standing Committees as they currently are functioning, and in
  particular how the Committees you are a member of are functioning
  were reviewed by the Executive Council members. The following
  statements were made:

  - Committees have allowed for deeper \[dive\] conversations on key
    issues impacting The Carpentries.

  - Some see a clear improvement in how the Executive Council has
    been able to address specific topical issues by standing
    committees.

  - Committees have allowed for additional time to address issues in
    depth, and address more issues in an organized way than
    previously managed.

  - Based on the successful engagement of standing committees, we
    might consider moving to a quarterly meeting schedule
    (90-minutes) versis monthly meetings (60-minutes) for the
    Executive Council. This would include pushing discussions into
    committee for strategic thought and recommendations back to
    the Executive Council, freeing up the Executive Council at the
    highest level. To do so, our responses back to the Executive
    Council need to be fine tuned for strategic action.

  - The question was raised if there are any other committees that we
    need or are any of the current still needed. Something to consider
    prior to making these permanent committees. To make permanent,
    ultimately a motion to make these standing committees in the
    bylaws will need to be made and approved by the Executive
    Council. These would then be an out of cycle Bylaws update, if
    done before the next amendment cycle.
