## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting August 08, 2021

* Present: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad FÃ¶rstner, Kari
  Jordan, Paula Andrea Martinez, Aleksandra Nenadic, Michael Smith,
  Sarah Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi, Lex Nederbragt

* Apologies: -

### 21/35 Review Q2 financial report

* Every quarter The Carpentries are getting better at budgeting,
  especially on the expenses side
  
* Income is higher than budgeted, due to unforeseen things,
  e.g. grant being granted and paid in full instead of installments
  
* US Paycheck Protection Program (Corona relief) provided second loan,
  could become forgiven (first was forgiven already)
  
* Estimation of expenses also gets better

* Length of current/projected operating expenses in the bank: 9
  months (using money in the bank when all grant income dries up)

### 21/36 Considering a Sponsorship program

* Background information: The goal of this program is for us to
  partner with like minded organisations who want to contribute
  financially to help The Carpentries achieve our mission and
  vision. With support from sponsors, The Carpentries will continue
  our efforts to make coding and data skills equitable globally and
  expand our operations to better meet the needs of our community now
  and in the future.
  
* The core team as requested for the Executive Council to approve:
    * Approve the sponsorship limit of 250 seats for Sponsored
      Instructor Training
    * Advise on the identified regional and diversity targets for
      sponsored instructor training in 2021-2022.
	  
* The recommendations for seats are:
    * For Oct. 1, 2021 - provide 50 seats
    *  For Dec. 31, 2022 - provide 200 seats
	
* The finance committee has created a motion
  [#68](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/68)
  for the approval of the 250 seats to be added to the Sponsorship
  Instructor Training.
  
* As the next steps after approving the seats the Instructor team is
  currently working with the community development team to work on
  improving the mentoring program.
  
* Challenges are e.g. sponsored trainees are not engaging with a
  community yet, they might be the only one in that region.
  Especially the lesson contributions seems to be a hurdle.
  
* The finance committee will add to the motion that seats will be
  targeted globally with regional levels.

### 21/37 Approval of the Election Policy

* The Governance Committee discussed at the retreat making a change to
  try and consider the areas we need more skills and expertise in
  for the election policy.
  
* There were two motions created by the Governance Committee.
  * [#66](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/66) -
     Expand the election policy to consider expertise for council
     elected positions
     * Pro - If we do this as only an election policy document we only
       need to modify it every two years, which is less work for the
       Executive Council (Comment: This is not correct - Policies can
       be changed continuously. It is only the Bylaws we change every
       second year) .
     * Con - There are many topics that are changing over time that
       need to be taken care of.

     * Governance committee will add text around having a diverse
       set of skills without going into the specific skill sets.
     * Executive Council will vote on the motion to approve.

  * [[\#67]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/67) -
    Motion to review Executive Council needs prior to community
    elections 2021-2022
        * The question is if we want this document to be a public
          policy document or a procedure document.
        * We still need a policy: This is how we do elections - rules,
          agreed.
        * The governance committee needs to review the election
          procedures, take anything from that document that is
          policy and add it to the bylaws review in 2022 as part
          election Policy section, not as a new document.
        * Will hold on voting on \#67 until next month.

### 21/38 Writing blog post summarizing the Executive Council activities of the past year?

* The communication committee suggested that we write a report (blog)
  of what is happening inside the Executive Council.

* The Executive Council agreed to do so in a biannual fashion (2
  reports per year).

### 21/39 Branch renaming and guideline

* There are still old naming conventions in Github repositories
  ("master" instead of "main").

* The core team has had conversations on making the switch; Kari will
  follow up with the core team to figure out where they are in the
  process of making the changes.

### Non-verbal updates

* The Values Alignment Task Force will meet on August 12

* In the last quarter, the Code of Conduct (CoC) Committee hosted a
  community call together with a blog post and opened for a call for
  volunteers to join the CoC committee. There are 6 responses.
  Application review will be held next week.
