## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council Discussion meeting September 21st, 2021

**Present**: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad FÃ¶rstner, Kari
Jordan, Paula Andrea Martinez, Aleksandra Nenadic, Michael Smith, Sarah
Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi, Lex Nederbragt

**Apologies**: -

### 21/40 Values Alignment Task Force

* The Values Alignment Task Force was chartered in June with the goal
  of delivering a set of recommendations - a 'Due Diligence' process -
  to the Executive Council on how to identify whether an organisation
  or service is acting in accordance with The Carpentries Core Values.

* The recommendations include to establish an internal decision
  process but no committee; internal audit documentation should be
  kept for future auditing and to be able to answer questions; The
  documents should be kept internal to demonstrate that organisations
  change and we just have an evaluation of the current state; balance
  risks & needs - in case the have organisation we do not like to work
  this we have to balance.

* Next steps
  * Share with Core Team
  * Blog post with the recommendation but without the Due Diligence
    Rubric
  * Figuring out who answers question and establishing workflows

* Further comments suggestions in the discussion:
  * This is a conversation that we have had for several years so it is
    very good to finally have a solution.
  * It needs to be clarified what needs to be done in case of any
    issues - currently the document states "a hard decision". It was
    suggested that the Executive Council should be informed.  The Core
    team makes decisions, the Executive Council needs to be included
    in the wording of the document to be informed; Furthermore, non
    United States databases should be considered for auditing purposes
    of institutions/organisations not located in the United States.
  * Mostly funding organizations who would like to support us will be
    affected by the document. The funder application form will be
    aligned with the Due Diligence Rubric.

* Generally the document was supported and the Executive Council
  members were invited to give further feedback to the document.

### 21/41 Code of Conduct Committee

* Discussing outcome of a meeting between Core Team, Officers
  Committee and Code of Conduct Committee liaison

* General issue of Code of Conduct Committee reporting was discussed
  in Officers Committee

* We also got the list of 6 new Code of Conduct Committee candidates.

* One suggestion to make the Code of Conduct Committee more Executive
  Council heavy i.e. add more Executive Council members (\~ 3) should
  become part of it

* Intermediately having more Executive Council members attending the
  CoC meeting

* Comments:
  * The Code of Conduct Committee is very relevant to keep the
    community safe. We are not sure if the Code of Conduct Committee
    can adequately act on time to incidents. We want the Code of
    Conduct Committee to function and be a really community lead
    committee. A more governance heavy might help to get the processes
    in place done.
  * The Code of Conduct Committee is so far not yet well covered in
    the bylaws.
  * The number of candidates for the CoC increase since the last time
    we discussed the topic. EC-heavy does not necessarily mean that
    there are more Executive Council members than non-EC members on
    the Code of Conduct Committee. The primary activity are incident
    handling - part of the discussion is the size. It is currently
    more of an *ad-hoc* committee and we would like to have a standing
    committee. There are different ways of doing this - for example
    also Executive Council members could join in case of incidents.
  * Usually one Executive Council member should be enough as Executive
    Council members are already quite busy. The Executive Council was
    always supportive in helping with CoC issues, when the Code of
    Conduct Committee requested extra help.
  * The Executive Council should not be the way to solve problem that
    occur in the organisation (not only for Code of Conduct
    Committee). we should not structurally rely on adding more
    Executive Council members to the Code of Conduct Committee (as we
    are anyway very busy). A global community should not rely on
    this - we would have a single point of failure. Due to this not
    recommended not to add further Executive Council members to the
    Code of Conduct Committee. Instead we should work towards a
    situation of clarity where the community does not need to rely on
    actions of the EC.
  * It was suggested to add more clarity in the bylaws regarding the
    Code of Conduct Committee and that the next Executive Council
    address this. As alternative it was suggested that this is a topic
    for the current Governance Committee or the Offices Committee.

### 21/42 Geographic growth

* A general update given by Kari.
* This issue covers plans for the global south as well as trademark,
  hiring etc.
* Growth: We will receive funding for an African Capacity Manager and
  another 6 memberships to institutions in South America and Southern
  Africa; 3 in year 1 of the grant and 3 in year 2 of the grant. These
  will be silver memberships.
* Trademark for Software, Data Carpentry and The Carpentries; for
  Library Carpentry we do not have enough funding but this is planned
  for 2022; Until we are independent the trademarks are owned by our
  fiscal sponsor Community initiatives.
* Hiring - a service company is used for this.
* A dashboard to track the revenue / volunteer hours in different
  countries as this might be relevant for taxation will be
  established.
* Further comments:
  * Motion to approve the instructor training sponsorship strategy
    for 2021-2022 - approve the sponsorship limit of 250 seats for
    sponsored instructor training
  * Meta discussion regarding the usage of GitHub which is not a
    ideal platform for voting as votes can be remove (remove given
    emoji); this could be a task for the next EC; usually what is
    in the minutes is law.

### 21/42 Election 2022 Executive Council

* Relaxing voting eligibility requirements: quick recap of the process
  that led to [[the
  motion]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/69)
  to expand voting eligibility for the 2022 Executive Council
  election. In April 2020 the Core Team sent a blogpost regarding the
  relaxation of voting. Lex was hesitant to put up a motion to bypass
  the bylaws. This process was a little bit unlucky but fine now to
  enable the community to vote.
* As the blog post says "indefinitely" this needs to be fixed. We
  should make this transparent and write a blog post.
* General update on the election process/progress
  * Blogpost announcing elections
    [[https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/executive-council-elections/]{.ul}](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/executive-council-elections/)
  * Key date October 18 closing of self-nominations and
    recommendations
  * We also passed [[motion
    66]{.ul}](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/66)
    to explicitly consider expertise for council elected
    positions.
  * Recommendations: Add names and detail (region, expertise)
  * Action item for everybody: Invite new members to nominate
  * People should get involved to the get to know the process
    * Governance Committee handels now the elections
    * Succession planning needed.
  * Konrad joins the Governance Committee to support the election
    process
