## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council Discussion meeting December 21, 2021

**Present**: Cedric Chambers, Konrad FÃ¶rstner, Paula Andrea Martinez,
Lex Nederbragt,, Michael Smith, Sarah Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi

**Apologies**: Aleksandra Nenadic

### 21/51 Approval of the 2022 budget (Talisha, 15 minutes)

- High level question - how good is next year looking:

  - Answer: 2022 income 1.3 M / expensen 2.3 M - but this was
    expected as we received all funds October/November this year;
    so we start in 2022 with a very high balance and spend down on
    them.

  - We plan to bring in further funds to avoid that the balance goes
    below zero

    - e.g. Increase membership, sponsorship programme; overall the
      balance will be positive with \~ 1 M in the bank

    - Our fee-for-services funds can be used for any expenses; the
      grant funds have defined purposes; R Studio and JUMP are
      new new sponsors; aiming for higher-tier sponsors;
      considering to look for larger donors than small donation
      campaigns

- The numbers for 2022 are based on the 2021 actuals; we have to put
  focus on growth of the fundraising; we have to find ways to fill
  the 1 M gap; the finance committee will support to find
  solutions - working on a quarterly basis. Also reporting the
  sponsor revenue will be adapted - to match the income and the
  spending of grant funds.

- **Voting: I move to approve The Carpentries Fiscal Year 2022
  Expenses Budget of \$2,347,918.00. Maker: Treasurer Smith, Motion
  passed (8 yes; 0 no, 0 abstained)**

### 21/52 Discuss reorganisation of the Code of Conduct Committee (Officers Committee)

- Should there be more Executive Council members on the Code of
  Conduct Committee, or should it remain community-driven with an EC
  liaison

  - At least one, and at most two, members of the Executive Council
    will be appointed as full members of the Code of Conduct
    Committee, with voting rights.

- How many member should the Code of Conduct Committee have

  - The Code of Conduct Committee consists of 1 governance chair, 1
    incident response chair, one or two members who also are
    member of the Executive Council, 1 staff liaison, 1 veteran
    member and up to 6 regular members

- Should the Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct Committee be anchored
  (better) in the Carpentries bylaws

  - Yes. This has been duly noted as an issue in the repository for
    the 2022 bylaw revision:
    [carpentries/2022_Bylaw_revision\#4](https://github.com/carpentries/2022_Bylaw_revision/issues/4)

- What other tasks could the Code of Conduct Committee be given or
  take upon itself

  - It is proposed to let the new Code of Conduct Committee come
    back to this question once they have been 'in office' for a
    while

  - The current Code of Conduct Committee chair anticipates the
    following for 2022:

    - Playing a large training role in the new Code of Conduct
      Facilitator program (including development of training
      materials)

    - As part of the onboarding of new Code of Conduct Committee
      members, hold a series of mock incident response
      scenarios. Once we do a few of these, and come up with a
      good workflow, open these up to the Code of Conduct
      Committee Facilitators as well

    - Develop data management policies for the Code of Conduct to
      ensure both confidentiality and institutional memory

    - Formalizing the onboarding process

- Concern by the Code of Conduct Committee reported by Masami as Code
  of Conduct Committee Liaison

  - CoC will lose independence

- =\> suggestion to leave them alone; this needs to discussed; they
  made some suggestion which was declined

- Motion postponed and bring this to the January 2022 Executive
  Councile meeting

  - Action item for everyone - read the comment by the Code of
    Conduct Committee

### 21/53 Lesson Program governance (Program Committee)

- Program Committee have already talked to different group - no action
  needed once the motion is approved

- **Voting: I move to approve the Lesson Program Governance
  Policy as outlined in the proposed changes to the handbook (see
  [Pull Request
  \#809](https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/pull/809)).
  (Maker: EC Member Stevens) Motion passes (8 yes, 0 no, 0
  abstained)**

### 21/54 Proposal to change meeting frequency from monthly to quarterly (with extended meeting length)

- Will bring us a more board-like way of operating. A schedule was
  suggested - the different standing Executive Council committees
  will report of the passed quarter; there will be a on-boarding and
  a retreat;

- Comments:

  - Currently we are often postponing point the next meeting; with
    such a schedule we will not be able to operate like this
    anymore; we have to have processes available for handling this
    (i.e. Core team takes care);

    - Response - several task/topics covered in the past by the
      Executive Council was not necessary and will be handled by Core
      team; Core team will also further prepare topics for the
      Executive Council meeting; furthermore open topics can be solved
      via email; there will be also material/information compiled
      before each meeting (more working on a board book)

- The frequent meeting also helped to motivated people to work on the
  points

  - Response: We need to prepare the the meeting better before (also
    include the right groups / stakeholder); the standing
    committee will further have monthly meeting; the Executive
    Council meeting will me much more efficient;

  - Response: If new members need more onboarding which could
    happened in the meeting we do not have to change to the new
    schedule

- **Voting: I move to adopt a Quarterly meeting schedule as
  described in the proposal linked to above, starting with the 2022
  Executive Council. (Maker: Treasurer Smith) Motion passes (7 yes,
  0 no, 1 abstiained).**

### 21/55 High-level overview of what the 2022 EC will work on (all, 15 minutes)

- Main points

  - Bylaw revision (happening every 2 years) - process is started
    (there is [a
    repository](https://github.com/carpentries/2022_Bylaw_revision))

    - Request for comments from the community

  - Strategic plan update - for 3 - 5 year, next year is the third
    year

  - Roadmap to independent non-profit status

    - The EC can be called a board(!)

    - Sponsoring possible

  - Fundraising - full launch of sponsorship program (Treasurer
    added)

    - Clear need to get income besides grants

  - Community Awards

  - Election timeline

- Suggestion to look which EC committees will be responsible for which
  of the point; usually one committee will lead the effort; maybe
  discussed in the January meeting

  - Add these new points to the current [annual
    plan](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/executive-council.html#yearly-timeline)

  - Officer meeting suggested for January =\> Lex will do this

  - Suggestion to put some time into the agenda to discuss the
    strategic plan and meta goals; e.g. on the in person meeting

- On-boarding of new members will be done by Sarah and Konrad
