## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting April 20, 2021

* Present: Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki, Konrad Förstner, Kari
  Jordan, Paula Andrea Martinez, Lex Nederbragt, Aleksandra Nenadic,
  Michael Smith, Sarah Stevens, Masami Yamaguchi
* Apologies: None
* Guest: Talisha Sutton-Kennedy (Core Team)

### 21/15 - Funding updates

* New grant starting in July, 248,000 USD from Sloan Foundation,
  partner with minority serving organisations, will onboard 50
  instructors of color in the US, improve curriculum (more culturally
  responsive)
* We just hit 100 member organisations! (increase from 63 last year)

### 21/16 - Review draft financial report for community

* Programs: term used to identify the various activities that move the
  mission forward: community engagement, membership, instructor
  training, curriculum development, workshops. But we also have Lesson
  Programs and Instructor Training - which fall under the Program
  Committee. Lesson Programs are not mapped to the budget as such.
* Feedback from EC is due by Friday April 23 - text can be highlighted
  and commended
* The report will be finalized after that

### 21/17 - EC Standing Committees: approval of Committee Charters

* Regarding bylaw revision: regularly scheduled revision was in 2020,
  next in 2022. It may be good to start with a few issues we already
  have this year to ease the work in 2022. Process for updating is a
  GitHub repository with the current text, add issues and discuss
  these there, suggesting changes through Pull Requests, then final
  Pull Request to the official version in the Carpentries Handbook -
  this one the entire EC votes on. We could create this repository
  for the 2022 revision already now and start populating it with
  issues. Another suggestion is to have a Google doc to identify
  issues.
* Program Committee: is this the Lesson Programs or all the different
  programs? First, Identify programs then address responsibilities.
  Suggested to consider this all-inclusive, for both types of
  programs.
* Communications Committee: what is meant by "In 2021 the
  Communication Committee also sees it as its responsibility to
  address the topic closer to the core values."? What is meant here is
  the responsibility a possible Values Committee, which we at some
  point discussed but do not have, would have. Aligns fine with the
  ongoing work done in the Community Development Team (from the Core
  Team)
* Governance Committee: suggested to add Approval of Election Policy
  (mentioned in the Bylaws but never approved)

### 21/18 - Approving 2021 EC meeting planning

* The planning document is meant to represent the final resolution of
  each issue. Sometimes there may be a need to discuss a topic at an
  earlier meeting.
* Sponsored Instructor Training Proposal will have to be moved to May,
  perhaps even June
* See suggested for new item on Election Policy, this was added to the
  August meeting
* The meeting planning document was approved

### 21/19 - Sponsored Instructor Training Proposal 

* See Meeting Minutes from the Finance Committee meeting on this.
  Karen Word and Kari were present at this meeting.
* Issue is to how to enable sponsored Instructor Training without
  cannibalizing finances
* Decision making may be shared between Core Team and EC (or EC
  Standing Committee(s))
* Some action items were derived from the meeting, around costs
  estimates, review of Instructor Training in 2020
* The review of the proposal is still ongoing and a revised proposal
  will be prepared by Karen and resubmitted to the Finance
  Committee, and ultimately the EC
* This issue ties in with member/corporate sponsors
* The Finance Committee agreed to the initial two asks (see Agenda
  above)
* Timeline: final approval at June EC meeting

### 21/20 - Poll core and wider community for who to align with

* Related to 'how should we align ourselves with', needs to be well
  prepared. Asking the EC whether polling the community is a good
  way to go? How wide to cast the net? EC, Core Team, member
  organisations, the whole community? Must ensure carefully phrased
  questions
* 'Align with' has multiple ways of looking at it:
  * vendors, service providers → maybe this becomes a 'no-involvement' list?
  * E.g. GitHub is an important for the infrastructure so not
     working with them would affect us a lot
  * Who do we accept money from? E.g. pharmaceutical companies
     approaching us
  * Example: laws prohibiting countries from collaborating with each
     other, while Carpentries are all about cross-border collaboration
     (folks may end up in a meeting with someone from a forbidden
     country, thereby breaking their countries law)
  * Think about phrasing this carefully
  * A counter argument was raised: this issue should be resolved by
    EC, not by asking the community, may open can of worms. EC should
    be able to make their own rubric for the organisation.  At least
    be very careful about what kind of input one asks from the
    community. Counter-counter argument is international issues Core
    Team and EC may not be aware of.

### Non-verbal updates

* According to our Yearly Timeline, we were supposed to Review the Q1
  financial report. However, this does not happen until the end of
  April, so we will report out on the Q1 financials at the May
  meeting. We may have to adjust our Yearly Timeline when it comes
  to quarterly financial reporting
* The (virtual) 2021 Carpentries Executive Council (EC) retreat will
  take place between June 7-9.
