# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for August 15, 2024

## Present on August 15 2024
Erin Becker, Sarah Stevens, Jannetta Styne, Yani Bellini Saibene, Konrad Förstner, Kari Jordan, Nisha Ghatak, John Chodacki, Michael Smith, Mark Crowe, Pao Corrales, Eboni Dotson

## Apologies
None

## Minutes for Agenda Items

### Call to Order  
### Agenda Approval  

  * Resolved, the agenda and items within the Board packet, presented to the Directors for consideration, are hereby approved by consensus.  
  * Approved by consensus

### Q2 Financial Report Overview  
  * April \-June 2024  
  * Q2 \- Income we hit 85% of predicted, also spent less 96% of what we predicted, higher net loss than expected, net balance is 78% of what we wanted it to be at the end of Q2  
  * Year to date \- income 78% of anticipated, expenses slightly under 93%, net loss is significantly higher than anticipated, we are 78% of where we wanted to be at the end of Q2  
  * Compared to last year \- income is slightly less this year, 12% decrease in same period in 2023, larger decrease in expenses 41 percent, due to staff cuts.  
  * At the end of Q2 bank balance $390,818 \- 3.7 months of operating expenses in the bank  
  * Kari working hard on grants and subawards, 5 additional sources of income we anticipate being delivered in 2024 \- promised but no due date on the payment yes   
  * CZI grant will come in early, in processing  
  * Will receive STRUDEL grant through UC Berkeley in Sept  
  * IMLS sub award TBD  
  * Havard Dataverse GREI will come partially in 2024  
  * Slone award through Howard was due Oct 2023, not yet paid, following up on this and receiving support from Sloan program officer.  
  * Total additional income is almost $600k  
  * No additional off budget income expected  
  * Question about grants \- All new or some in the budget for this year already?  
    * All new, except CZI and Sloan  
  * Forecasting Q3 and Q4 \- anticipate expenses being pretty steady, given dates of distribution we expect to see more income in Q3 and Q4  
  * Action steps  
    * in addition to following through on subawards we are increasing our efforts toward membership outreach, seen decrease in programmatic revenue \-   
    * reaching out to previous memberships or organizations who haven’t had memberships but do have active Carpentries community members,   
    * also outreach for Collaborative Lesson Development, CLDT, (newest revenue generation program)  
    * Kari leading Membership Model Exploration Task Force to revise membership model,   
    * also submitting stage 1 NSF POSE grant proposal  
  * Questions  
    * Sloan Subaward through Howard University \- $95,561 (due October 2023\) where did we land on this?   
      * Addressed above \- have suspended activities until the subaward comes through, support from the program officer has been helpful.  
    * See Forecast 2023 vs Forecast 2024?  \- How does the forecast for 2023 compare to this year? As accurate, less accurate, etc?  
      * We didn’t have them at this level of detail but Erin will look through and see how this compares.  
    * When can we expect to transition to 501c?   
      * We need to have funds set up before we switch  \- 6 months operating expenses for 3+ months.  We are still working through CI. This date is tentative at the moment.  
      * Erin and Kari are drafting NSF proposal for managing organization for the lesson programs for year grant that will help support.  
      * Need to give CI 60 days notice.  
      * No definite time frame but waiting for 6 month padding, started the transition preparation. 3 month transition project with CXore to set up insurance, payroll, etc, so when it comes time it will be a smooth process. Once setup, we will pause and have this ready to pick up when we hit the 6 month metric.  
      * Question about budget income and expenses \- estimate month when we will reach the 6 months padding?  
        * Erin will do the math based on the projections. According to the current projections, if we get all the funds we talked about above, we should be there at the end of Q3 2024\.  
      * Staff question \- we had reduction of staff \- have we seen any major issues that have meant we haven’t be able to achieve the goals we need to? Concern with continuing with the current staffing level?  
        * We have been doing extraordinarily well with the smaller staff.  They are accomplishing a lot and keeping our programmatic work going. No concerns with continuing with this staff.  Staff did well with the transition.  Subawards are activities we are planning to do anyway, so we haven’t added new projects that would require additional staff, still focusing on core operations. We do not need to hire new staff at this point, we have carefully chosen subawards to make sure they work for the current staffing model.  
    * Staff reduction and salary cut to make the cost reduction, need to keep in mind that some exec staff are making less than before.  
    * From last calls, getting these grants is going to become a core activity of our funding? Rather than membership?  
      * We don’t want it to be a long term core component, working on membership model and scaling up membership offerings to increase programmatic revenue, major priority.  Would like to decrease reliance on these external awards.  
      * Q: How feasible is that?  
        * Task force is a 6 month project to reevaluate our membership program and its offerings, engage with current and past members, and make recommendations on how to improve our model.  Kari will bring updates during the Dec meeting, won’t make changes until we hear from the recommendations from the task force.  Won’t improve the programmatic offerings and revenue until next year. These awards help bridge the gap while we work on long term  
        * John: Board recognises that we need to be innovative, so there is a possibility we will have grants going on but we need to have more stable income, grants not failure, part of mission and success.  
    * How do we ensure we get the grants we apply for? Know a bit more about how we work with other communities.   
      * Hold for program committee report out and later item  
    * Vision/Mission? (missing in broader board doc)   
      * Hold for program committee report out and later item  
    * Collaborative Lesson Development Training \- Great initiative. Some questions:    
      * Who is teaching this? How is this offered? Is this under the governance of the trainer leadership committee? Where is this housed in the larger spectrum of lessons and training offered? How do we choose trainers who have the experience to teach this? How we hope to have this operational?    
      * Hold for program committee report out

### Review and Discussion of Strategic Plan Activities	  

  * Website \- we have been working on the website for a long time, went through a few vendors but have come to a point where we have look and feel, back end, and are working on building the content. Planning to launch in November. Lesson program websites have been streamlined \- this was done recently.  Only have the program, lessons, and governance \- much simpler.  Goal of the main Carpentries website is to create user journeys where people can find information based on their user interests. Excited for the new website.  Will help with speaking to funders.   
  * Have been running a 6 month series of community calls with the Executive Director, this came out of the performance review last year to re-engage with the community.  Coffee with Carpentries Executive Director, provided a summary of what I heard and the conversations we had. Similarly to the staff’s engagement, we are getting positive feedback from the community.  Seeing people getting involved in various roles. Check out blog post for more info.  
  * Curriculum \- released new R ecology lesson, updating the python lesson for library carpentry and adding … lesson (missed topic).  
  * Questions or comments?  
    * In terms of the calls, are they good in terms of quality and quantity? How many people joined? And how were the conversations roughly?  
      * Each call had a different number 5-15, depending on the timezone.  Had calls across various timezones working hours to accommodate as many people as we could.  No more than 15 on a call. The strategy was one per month for six months. Each call had a topic. First call on staff reduction.  Another on IDEAS toolkit. Each call had a specific theme, and the community could also provide feedback asynchronously in a GitHub issue.  
    * Carpentries Community Calendar is very busy and shows the events, helpful if you want to look into the activities going on in the Carpentries  
    * Now is the time of year to engage with the strategic plan \- By December board meeting, Kari will put together a bridge strategic plan, 1 page high level to get us through the spin out in the 501c3.  
    * Community calls question \- sometimes facilitating them is a lot of work. Now that it is over, do we have any plans to follow up with blog posts or comms about what is happening and what to expect?  
      * We do\! Realized after the 6 month series, I(Kari) hadn’t written for the blog.  The comms manager has created a workflow for once a month where Kari looks at the next 4 weeks and picks out things that need to be shared with the community and he helps create a blog post.  
      * The Core Team will also keep sharing their activities.

### Standing Committee Reports

  *  Finance Committee \- covered in Financial report above  
  *  Program Committee  
    * Worked on the lesson incubation program and there has been some progress on that. HPC Carpentry had submitted an incubation application. Have made progress on that this year. Worked on a checklist for incubation and passed on comments, made changes. The entire doc is with the HPC Carpentries committee working with it.  
    * Not part of the work plan, but we are going to review the report for the trainer leadership committee. Didn’t have a committee planned to review that.  The documentation/by-laws say they need to report to us (the Executive Council/Board) bi-yearly. March is not a great time since there is a new board committee starting. Will include in the work plan as we go and probably next year as well.  
    * Kari: Excited about HPC Carpentry’s lesson program incubation, if we receive NSF program funding, this will be a great test case for us. Onboarding a new lesson program requires a lot of work and this allows us to test the process and make sure it works well for the Core Team and Community.   
    * Question \- if some of the lessons that are in Software/Data/Library Carpentries, they start with python or something like that, installing something on their laptop and people spend a long time trying to do that.  For some that is a requirement, but there are opportunities for using virtual environments on their campus. The HPC Carpentry brings this up because they will need to have environments on their campus. Other ones, do we have standardised ways to leverage that so they don’t install this software every time?  
      * Erin, great timing because Toby Hodges is initiating a task force about this problem with python because the licensing for anaconda has changed.   
      * [https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/main/2024/lesson-setup-instructions.md](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/main/2024/lesson-setup-instructions.md)  
      * Task force is an excellent idea\!  Anaconda is changing their licensing soon and academics won’t be able to use it soon. Sometimes universities offer solutions that may not be best suited. So, this is an exciting bit of work. Community is excited about this too \- visible through  the long slack thread conversation on this\!  
      * Maybe should reach out to anaconda with a note as part of the task force.  
      * Nisha: Folks in NZ are trying to look at this issue.  Lots of folks use google colab (free, for now) and accessible.  Also jupyter notebooks are using extension.  One thing that has come out a bit is using cloud and moving away from commercial platforms (AWS, GCP, etc) for data privacy issues. NESI has developed a cloud training program, testing for free right now.  Once it is live the intention is for it to be open for public research institutions. Also cloud training at Pawsey (Australian institute).  This is being looked into at a lot of places.  
      * Want to support classrooms that don’t have good internet connections and additional resources to make it easier.  
    * Vision/Mission? (missing in broader board doc)   
      * Hold for program committee report out  
    * Collaborative Lesson Development Training \- Great initiative. Some questions:    
      * Who is teaching this?   
        * Toby has started putting together a group of folks who will be teaching this. Finding people in the global time zones is key. Slowly rolling out with 6 trainers.  
        * How is this offered?  
          * Mainly offered to folks with a membership.   
        * Is this under the governance of the trainer leadership committee?   
          * Governance \- no current governance specific to this program, currently being scaled up. Toby has a roadmap for this \- including governance  
        * Where is this housed in the larger spectrum of lessons and training offered?   
          * It is within the Carpentries lessons, not part of S/D/L Carpentries lesson program, just like Instructor Training. Plan is that it is administered in similar ways to the Instructor Training program.   
        * How do we choose trainers who have the experience to teach this?   
          * Toby had been choosing trainers who are active in Instructor Training and have incubator efforts, maybe need to confirm with Toby.    
        * How we hope to have this operational?    
          * Erin will track down the road map to share. The scale right now is that we are running about 1 event per quarter, Instructor Training is 15 events per quarter.  Still smaller, Toby is working on outreach to existing member orgs to raise awareness. 5 members have built seats for Collaborative Lesson Development Training into their membership agreement. Adding this as a membership benefit. We now have the option for current members to convert some of their Instructor Training seats to Collaborative Lesson Development Training. Toby will follow up with the demand.  
        * Program committee is excited about this offering and wants it to be clear how to get involved as trainers or participants.  
        * We have the feeling that the offering of the technical or computational workshops are clear but the offering of the pedagogical aspect are not so much, which also includes this new program. We also were wondering how the Program Committee will be involved in the governance of this new lesson program. We are also wondering how this is being offered to members.  
  * Governance Committee \- lost chair and haven’t met recently \- what should we do going forward?  
    * John is “volunteering” to step in as interim chair for governance committee.  Need to do Executive Director performance review and other important tasks.  
    * Need Governance committee meeting. Also need to think about this with board recruitment.  

### Recess  

### Generative Discussion

  * Board Recruitment  
    * Tara Robertson stepped down from board as of July 18, 2024  
    * Have 10 members but within the minimum still, would like to have an odd number to avoid stalemates  
    * 4 members terms end in Jan 2025 \- Sarah, Mike, Konrad, John  
    * 2 members terms end in July 2025 \- Eboni, Yani  
    * Remaining through 2027 \- Mark, Jannetta, Pao, Nisha  
    * Kari has created detailed recruitment strategy \- reviewed document  
      * Questions \-   
      * Clarify procedure with elections \- Mark, Jannetta, Pao, Nisha \- are all community elected \- need to onboard board selected members since we have community elected.  For 501c need to have two board members who are US citizens   
      * Will use board networks to nominate people.  
      * How many are we selecting for this new round?  
        * We will have 10 through Jan 2025, 6 through July (any of whom can apply for another term if you’d like but can also step down). Want to onboard 3 new members by Feb 2025\. Will have 9 then.  
      * What is the length of the terms for internal appointed vs community elected?  
        * Terms are 2 years, term limit is 6 years or 2 consecutive terms (will check the by-laws to be sure).  
      * On nominating potential members, are we expecting to have one from the US to make sure we can fulfill the 501c terms?  
        * Yes, we have to have one for the IRS in the US. At least 2 so we have the chair of the board and the treasurer, to sign legal docs on behalf of the board.  (need to check the by-laws on this to be sure)  
        * Also need previous board experience and other characteristics in the matrix.  
        * Need to have someone from the US designated to sign for the US legally, if the Treasurer isn’t. Not sure about the by-laws.  
        * Could have a board with all non-Americans but we would need additional setup and paperwork for Americans to sign the financial documents.  
        * Easiest to have an American on the board to take care of this, especially since they are a big part of our community.  
      * Need people who have time. Try our best to support the Board to minimize admin but need engaged individuals to participate in the Carpentries board activities.  
      * During the Q4 meeting, we will discuss and vote on the candidates. Will vote in the December meetings  
      * Need a communication strategy about our gov structure and why we don’t have an election this year.  
      * With reduced board size from 11 to 9, will we have enough folks for the committee roles.  
        * If we have members with more time, that might help.  We currently have large committees but didn’t have the capacity in the committees. Maybe the number is not as important as the time available to be committed.  
        * We want 3 new members to replace the leaving members, but we need to do the same for July. Should we just do this all at once since we will be down to 7\.  
          *  Minimum is 7\. We will still meet the minimum, but if we want to not do 2 cycles, that would be a good idea.  
          * This can depend on recruitment of skilled and available individuals, we can take on more if needed.  
      * Board members need to take action on recruiting new members. Kari has documentation to help.  
  * 8 Key areas of non-profit excellence \- skipped for time  
  * Refining the Carpentries mission statement  
    * Good to revisit vision, mission, and values after a big transition. Exec team has been doing this throughout this year. Kari has been working to refine the mission statement. Without a mission statement, we can't easily explain who we are and what we do. During core team meetings, we dug into this mission statement and if it makes sense for the community we are serving, is it clear? Does it reflect our core activities?  
    * Want to hear thoughts on this refined mission statement.  
    * John: Like the new proposed statement because it focuses on attention on lesson development and teaching.  Two things we are trying to do. This new framing puts them front and center. Creating curriculum and teaching. One addition since last discussion, it makes research and research practice a core piece of what we are.  Question, do we believe that is central to who we are?  
      * Some agreement some concerns about leaving people out  
    * Pao: Openly available lesson materials isn’t in the new one but is an important part of the mission.  
      * Good observation, this was not purposely removed.  
      * Could we put this in our values? \- not currently , though act openly is close, it is more about community activities.  
      * Would like to have this somewhere important. Agree this is important.  
    * Emphasis on research and open is important.  Value isn’t strong enough for the open part.  
    * Adjusting to maybe “Through collaborative, open lesson development” from “Through collaborative lesson development”  
    * Generally we are supportive of refining the mission statement and making it open and digestible and clear.  
    * Need to vote on the mission statement change, also had gotten feedback from the community last time. Do we want to open this to the community?  
      * If this is just a refinement to help make the mission clearer or more understandable, we probably don’t need to get community feedback.  If we feel like this is changing our mission, we will need to get community feedback.  
      * We will read and think carefully to see if we all agree it is a rewording rather than a change.  

### Poll for Q4 Meeting  

### Closing Remarks  

### Adjournment
