# The Carpentries Yearly Governance Report 
*Reporting period: February 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021*

## Summary Statement
The Carpentries is a fiscally sponsored project of [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/), a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit based in California, USA. The Carpentries is transitioning out of fiscal sponsorship to an independent 501(c)(3) non-profit organisation ([learn more](https://carpentries.org/files/pdf/Fiscal_Sponsorship_Transition_FAQ.pdf)). For that reason, the organisation has two governing bodies.

Governance of The Carpentries (a fiscally sponsored project of Community Initiatives) is undertaken by a three-person Advisory Committee. Governance of The Carpentries, Inc. (501(c)(3)  non-profit organisation) is undertaken by the Board of Directors. The Board comprises 11 persons, either members of The Carpentries community or from external communities brought in for specific expertise. At least one-third of the Board members are elected by the Carpentries community.

For more information regarding The Carpentries governance, visit the [Governance page of The Carpentries website](https://carpentries.org/governance/).

*Before 2024, The Carpentries was governed by a nine-person Executive Council.

### 2021 Advisory Committee (Executive Council) Members
2021 Advisory Committee members are: 
- Cedric Chambers, Jump Recruits
- John Chodacki, California Digital Library
- Konrad Förstner, ZB MED - Information Centre for Life Sciences and TH Köln, Secretary
- Paula Andrea Martinez, Australian Research Data Commons / Research Software Alliance, Vice Chair
- Lex Nederbragt, University of Oslo, Norway, Chair
- Aleksandra Nenadic, The Software Sustainability Institute, UK
- Michael Smith, D.Eng., The PEER Group, Treasurer
- Sarah Stevens, University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Masami Yamaguchi, Griffith University, Australia, Code of Conduct Committee Liaison

## Standing Committees and Activities
### Officers Committee
Current members: Lex Nederbragt, Paula Andrea Martinez, Konrad Förstner, Michael Smith

The Officers Committee meets when needed. Over the reporting period, the key activities included:

* Formation and structuring of the Executive Council Standing Committees
* Wrote the Committee’s charter

### Governance Committee
Current members: Lex Nederbragt, Paula Andrea Martinez, Konrad Förstner

* Organised and ran the Executive Council Annual Meeting in June 2021
* Surveyed key elements of decision making transparency rubric between the EC and the Core team, proposed a motion and published consensus via the handbook
* Reviewed internal election documentation and updated it as needed

### Finance Committee
Current members:  Michael Smith, Cedric Chambers, John Chodacki

The Finance Committee meets the second Thursday of each month. Over the reporting period, the key activities included:

- Review of the treasury reports, including financial statements and current budget status for January - June 2021. (Each month the committee reviews the reports for two months prior to the current meeting month, based on complete report availability.)
- Created, reviewed and approved the Finance Committee Charter
- Reviewed and provided commentary on The Carpentries 2020 Financial Report (public).
- Reviewed the current financial policy of The Carpentries.
- Review FY2021 budget and approved budget increase to accommodate an increase in a standard monthly expense that was not accounted for in the original budgeting cycle.
- Reviewing the updated Sponsored Instructor Training proposal to incorporate our regional and diversity growth goals. The Executive Council approved the [motion](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/68) on approving the sponsorship limit of 250 seats for sponsored instructor training in 2021-2022. 
- Began development of The Carpentries Business Sponsorship Program Project Plan and core implementation elements for finalization and approval in Q4.


### Communications Committee 
Current members:  Konrad Förstner, Aleksandra Nenadic, Masami Yamaguchi

The Communications Committee meets once a month. Over the reporting period, the key activities included:

- Setting up the Values Alignment Task Force - the objective of the Values Alignment Task Force was to deliver a set of recommendations (a due diligence process) on how to identify whether an organisation or service is acting in accordance with [The Carpentries core values](https://carpentries.org/values/). The work of this Task Force was concluded in September 2021.
- Development of a rubric for handling public statements from The Carpentries together with core team members.
- [Announcement of the new Executive Council’s Standing Committees](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/07/new-executive-council-standing-committees/), including updating the [Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/executive-council.html#executive-council-s-standing-committees).
- Generating a template and workflow regarding the Executive Council’s biennial reports.
  
### Program Committee
Current members:  Sarah Stevens, Lex Nederbragt, Aleksandra Nenadic, Masami Yamaguchi

The Program Committee meets once a month. Over the reporting period, the committee has worked primarily on developing a Lesson Program governance policy and supporting the reactivation of the Curriculum Advisory Councils (CAC).
