# The Carpentries Yearly Governance Report 
*Reporting period: February 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023*

## Summary Statement
The Carpentries is a fiscally sponsored project of [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/), a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit based in California, USA. The Carpentries is transitioning out of fiscal sponsorship to an independent 501(c)(3) non-profit organisation ([learn more](https://carpentries.org/files/pdf/Fiscal_Sponsorship_Transition_FAQ.pdf)). For that reason, the organisation has two governing bodies.

Governance of The Carpentries (a fiscally sponsored project of Community Initiatives) is undertaken by a three-person Advisory Committee. Governance of The Carpentries, Inc. (501(c)(3)  non-profit organisation) is undertaken by the Board of Directors. The Board comprises 11 persons, either members of The Carpentries community or from external communities brought in for specific expertise. At least one-third of the Board members are elected by the Carpentries community.

For more information regarding The Carpentries governance, visit the [Governance page of The Carpentries website](https://carpentries.org/governance/).

*Before 2024, The Carpentries was governed by a nine-person Executive Council.

### 2023 Advisory Committee (Executive Council) Members
2023 Advisory Committee members are: 
* Konrad Förstner (EC Chair), ZB MED - Information Centre for Life Sciences and TH Köln, DE
* John Chodacki (EC Vice Chair), California Digital Library, USA
* Sarah Stevens (EC Secretary), University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
* Michael Smith (EC Treasurer), D.Eng., The PEER Group, USA
* Abdulai Imoro, National Society of Black Engineers, Ghana
* Annajiat Alim Rasel (Code of Conduct Committee Liaison), BRAC University, Bangladesh
* Yanina Bellini Saibene, R-Ladies Global, Argentina
* Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University, UK
* Nisha Ghatak, New Zealand eScience Infrastructure, NZ

## Standing Committees and Activities
#### Officers Committee

Current members:  Konrad Förstner (EC Chair), John Chodacki (EC Vice Chair), Michael Smith (EC Treasurer), Sarah Stevens (EC Secretary)

Over the reporting period, the Officers Committee’s key activities included:

* Finalized documentation for future Executive Director succession planning

#### Governance Committee

Current members: John Chodacki (Chair), Annajiat Alim Rasel, Yanina Bellini Saibene, Nisha Ghatak

Over the reporting period, the Governance Committee’s key activities included:

* Overseeing the [2024 Board of Directors Elections](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/11/election-nominees-for-the-2024-board-of-directors/) 
* Proposed dissolving the Executive Council at the end of the current term (February 1, 2024) and appointing an Advisory Committee for The Carpentries fiscally sponsored project. The purpose of the Advisory Committee will be to interface with CI and negotiate The Carpentries termination of our fiscal sponsorship agreement. 

#### Finance Committee

Current members:  Michael Smith, Jannetta Steyn, Abdulai Imoro

Over the reporting period, the key activities included:

* Reviewing The Carpentries FY2023 Quarterly Financial Reports
* Approval of The Carpentries FY2024 (Expense) Budget


#### Program Committee 

Current members:  Annajiat Alim Rasel, Sarah Stevens, Nisha Ghatak, Yanina Bellini Saibene

Over the reporting period, the committee has worked primarily on:

* Reviewed the current institutional policy documents do not make sense as we are transitioning to a new organization with new documentation.
* Reviewed and discussed the requirements for the Incubation Phase of a Lesson Program. We group each task by type and goals and discuss adding tasks and metrics.  

