## Minutes from The Carpentries Executive Council Meeting 8 August 2023 (Q3)

Minutes from The Carpentries Executive Council (EC) meeting 8 August, 2023

Present: Konrad Förstner, Sarah Stevens, Michael Smith, Nisha Ghatak, Kari L. Jordan, Danielle Sieh, Talisha Sutton-Kennedy (for part of the meeting), Kelly Barnes (for part of the meeting) Yanina Bellini Saibene, Abdulai Imoro, John Chodacki

Apologies: Jannetta Steyn, Annajiat Alim Rasel


### Non-verbal updates

* A Code of Conduct Transparency Report covering 2023-01-13 to 2023-05-24 was published ([pull request](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/pull/84/files))


### Agenda Item 23/14: Strategic Planning 
* Strategic Plan - EC Meeting - Aug 2023 
    * Thank you for engaging at the retreat!
    * Current plan ends 2025
    * Will be forming a Strategic planning committee
    * Fewer goals and objectives, SMART metrics, specific strategies for achieving goals
    * Plan and timeline has 4 phases
1. Analysing process and environment (through the end of year)
2. Identify and analyse issues (2024)
3. Develop strategies and implement (2025-2026)
4. Implement strategies (2026-2030)
* EC provided feedback on the proposal for strategic planning
    * Discussion:
        * A concern came up that the process does not allow us to focus on the changes that are happening now. How do we evaluate in the short-term?
            * Suggestion of midterm planning
            * Long term goals but also milestone while keeping the plan flexible and having a process for changes based on feedback and monitoring.
            * Suggestion to break down the planning timeline by quarter.
        * Discussion of balancing including staff feedback and data in the process but having the Executive Director lead this process and not spending too much core team time on it.
        * Request for more examples of what this process will look like. - Kelly will plan to have at the next quarterly meeting.
        * Question about how will the work be achieved. Will the task force be dedicated to achieving certain milestones, etc.?
            * Kari and Kelly will on bring this back to the group. This discussion is to give the structure of the planning, Kelly will not plan to make all of the decisions


### Agenda Item 23/15: Q2 Financial Report 

* 1 April-30 June
* Starting balance: 1,701,672
    * Brought in 40% of what we budgeted
    * Spent 76% of what we budgeted as expenses
    * Balance is 1,186,732 at end of Q2
        * Grant: 470,471 
        * Reserve: 293,260 (1.3 months)
        * General: 423,001 (1.8 months)
* Income for Q1 and Q2 - brought in 54% of our budget
    * Fundraising efforts have not been as successful as hoped
    * Programs are down 
    * Kari is working cross team to secure grants 
        * Will help bridge gaps  - currently have around 4 applications under review
    * Business Team is working on plans to build income from programs 
        * Actuals: Had more memberships (20 instead of 19), workshops was close (3 instead of 4), low Instructor training/trainer training
* Discussion:
    * Are the percentages of budget for the quarter or year to date?
        * Both are represented in the slides
        * Q2 2023 Financial Review has year to date, expenses are 85% of our budget
        * When giving the quarter and year to date, it is nice to have a comparison from the previous year. The bulk of our income may come in a specific quarter, but then we get a boom and it goes up. It may feel low, but having a comparison helps us know if the trend is high or low. 
        * This way we aren’t alarmed if something doesn’t seem right. There may not actually be a problem. 
        * Also helpful to clarify if something is part of the quarter’s budget or the overall
        * Where should the finance committee start to end some of their efforts?
            * The gap is identifying decision makers at industrial companies. If ED/Finance committee members have connections at companies, that would be helpful.
    * Does it make sense to bring year to year perspective regarding what the trend is like for budget, income, expenses?
        * Talisha will consider adding trends where we can see what they are like historically.
    * Do you consider sponsorships by region? Ex. Microsoft in Argentina may not be the same as Microsoft in the US. Yani has run into this with conferences. Some regions may be more willing to contribute than others for the same company. 
    * Some companies are willing to fund on specific aspects.
        * Have a running list of all of the companies that have divisions in different regions in South Africa. Done outreach there. Numfocus has a ton of sponsors. Kari reach out to their ED. We don’t always know the contact person for the sponsorship. Once the contact is there, it is easy to get them interested in the Carpentries. Biggest challenge is who are the people in charge of sponsorship and how can we reach them?
        * Sometimes it’s whoever you can get to. Finding out what is important to them to help find out fit. Helps become part of the sale pitch. 





### Agenda Item 23/16: Updates from the Executive Director 

* Paused professional development and travel for Q3 to help with expenses
* Phasing out two positions that were designed with a time limit in mind. Deliverables will be complete. Accessibility Manager and Lesson Infrastructure Developer
* 4 grants - 2 are secure
    * Sloan Foundation -185,766. Will also help fund the EC retreat
    * Howard University subaward through Sloan Foundation - $120,000
    * Lots of conversations going on the grant front
* 501c3 - what will it look like financially for The Carpentries to spin out of fiscal sponsorship?
    * Looking at vendors
    * Will present on this at the Q4 meeting
    * Legally understanding the timeline when and if we can begin fundraising under the 501c3 is important. How soon can we use that status in fundraising? May give us some advantage.
        * A meeting with client service manager at CI is scheduled to understand this better. 
        * Sloan and Mellon foundations have shared they are in a position to give large grants in Q1 of next year, which would preferably go to the independent non-profit.
* No required timeline from our fiscal sponsor, which allows us to take our time. Want to be fully ready to be independent
* Please watch the YouTube video for #Carpentries25 kickoff! There will be additional opportunities to get involved
* 30 September 19:00 UTC for EC community call - please let Kari know whether or not you will be able to make it
* CT members will be at posit:conf in September
    * Sarah Stevens will also be there!
* Check out the 25 anniversary and 2022 annual financial report blog posts (linked in slides) - these are great resources for talking about The Carpentries
* Discussion:
    * Any anniversary is a way to promote the organisation through purpose - may help with university sponsorships. Library Sciences has an audience that doesn’t really know what The Carpentries does and how it can impact. How can we leverage this to let people know who we are and what we do?
    * Using this to re-engage and also shine a light on our funders (encourage continued support)
        * Will do a spotlight on sponsors and major grant funders as a thank you and a reminder we need to exist and need resources
    * We are currently relying on grants/fundraising through sponsorships, it is not currently working the way we’d like. Adjusted spending, but don’t yet have the money coming in so need to adjust costs as well. The number one thing in our costs is personnel. Most personnel is tied to grants, and therefore earmarked for specific tasks. Is there scenario planning for dealing with budget shortfalls?
        * The Executive Team has done scenario planning - will email with explanation. These scenarios include potential adjustments to staffing 
            * Finance committee will still be meeting this quarter, and will get a lead in on what things look like. It is concerning, puts the treasurer into a different mode for fundraising. Beyond typical operations, what can we do in the next 3 months (using resources, capital campaign, etc.)? Maybe 10 core companies, 5 core universities that aren’t part of the loop. Want to get ahead of it, manage long term, but also important to plan short term spring to support. 
                * Would really like the finance committee to be focused on this. It would be helpful to connect Kari to people, can talk about The Carpentries at events and direct them to Kari.
            * Would reducing Executive Team salary cover the shortfalls of Q2?
                * A 10% reduction is what we would need to cover the shortfall. 



### Agenda Item 23/17: Standing Committee Reports 
* Officers Committee
    * Required change management during transition
    * Review of board of the incorporate and documentation
* Finance Committee
    * Next quarter will be drafting FY24 budget - needs to be approved in December
    * Revenue strategies
        * Supporting operational, membership, and program sponsorships
        * Will put together a report of the specific asks for the Executive Council - how you can engage individuals and pass them to Kari and Erin. ANY leads help!
* Governance Committee
    * Focused on election procedures
        * Walked through the process and went over the calendars, made sure everyone was informed of what the election process would be
        * What does the effect of the 501c3 transition have on the upcoming election? Will discuss later in the agenda at today’s meeting. 
* Program Committee
    * Reviewed HPC Carpentries application - also met with Toby to discuss with CT to talk about who would support what
    * Recommend the incubation of the HPC lessons
    * Will create rubric to review official policies in the future
    * If passes, we will be moving into having 4 lesson programs - a lot of changes will be implemented
        * This will move into incubation first, so not everything will be happening right away
        * Want to have milestones and objectives so we know we have an audience, people to teach it. This will help us find if this is a good fit for us or if they should remain a separate entity
    * **Motion: I move to approve HPC Carpentry’s application for Lesson Program Incubation.**
        * **Maker: Yani Bellini Saibene, Second: Konrad Forstner**
        * **Voting: The motion passes by consensus**
    * Who communicates at this point?
        * Yani has been doing all of the communication. They know this was discussed today and will go back to the group with the outcomes. 
    * Now that it is approved for the incubation, what does this mean for The Carpentries as a marketing perspective? May be a larger audience of folks that we can attract if they see HPC. What can/can’t we market with this while it is in incubation?
        * Will be a blogpost that shares out HPC Carpentry has entered the incubation phase and what it means. The blog gets cross posted across social media. Kari will dig more into the roadmap to see what the incubation phase means for a communications perspective outside of the initial announcement.
        * Part of the work is to finish the modules the lesson will have. Currently has 2 parts - 1 for people who use HPC 1 for people that administer HPC. We need to find people who want to teach the material and people who want to learn the material. This would be good to focus on during the initial communication phase. 



### Agenda Item 23/18: Discussion of extending current term of Executive Council members through fiscal sponsorship transition 

* Recommendation for how to move forward without undue stress for the Executive Council and Core Team
    * Confident that we will be able to secure funding to spin us out of fiscal sponsorship and sustain - would like to spin out by end of Q1 next year
    * 1 February is the start of the new Executive Council’s term, meaning newly elected members will only serve for 1 month. This is doing a disservice to the community and the member joining
    * Great deal of admin for Core Team and elections officer to go through the process if we are only having them serve for a month
        * Would like to consider a motion to extend the current Executive Council  term through Q1 instead of going through the election process
    * Will the election then be for the board starting in March?
        * The minimum for the board is 7 (and up to 13), which we currently have. The board would see what is missing skill-wise and do the elections based on that, if needed. 
        * 33% of the members need to be community voted
    * There were questions and discussion about governance committee work flow changes, when to have the election, if the election should be for new EC members, Board Members, or both, what member organizations should know about the changes, and the fiscal sponsorship announcement.
            * Summary: would like to see an announcement that we are transitioning out of fiscal sponsorship. Not at a consensus for extending the current EC’s term and foregoing an election this year. 
            * **Recommendation: **Announcement of the fiscal transition in August/September. Inform membership of delay to March 1st where the election is for Board of Directors (similar to Executive Council, but detailed differences), and members are fully informed to run for a position in March.
            * **Motion: I move to extend the term of the 2022-2023 Executive Council to March 31, 2024.**
                * **Maker: Sarah Stevens, Second: Mike Smith
                * **The motion passes by consensus**
            * **Motion: I move to delay the 2023-2024 Executive Council election, and revisit the election timeline during the Q4 2023 EC meeting.**
                * **Delay to make this motion until hear back from governance.**


### Agenda Item 23/19: 2024 Executive Council Retreat Updates 

* Votes from everyone, the retreat is 26 Feb -1 March in Cape Town, South Africa
* Working on agenda - adding some items, including a codefest
* Reaching out to Executive Council for help with team building and a session on governance
* More info to come
* Please take the planning survey to see what you all would like to see at the retreat. 
* Q: What days will be need to travel vs be there for the retreat?
    * Plan to arrive the 25th  Start the meeting on the 26th cape town time and folks will fly out march 1st

### Agenda Item 23/20 Next Steps - Poll for December meeting
