## Minutes from The Carpentries Executive Council Meeting 11 May 2023 (Q2)

Minutes from The Carpentries Executive Council (EC) meeting 11 May, 2023 

Present: Jannetta Steyn, Konrad Förstner, Sarah Stevens, Michael Smith, Nisha Ghatak, Annajiat Alim Rasel, Kari L. Jordan, Danielle Sieh, Toby Hodges (for part of the meeting), Talisha Sutton-Kennedy (for part of the meeting), Yanina Bellini Saibene, Abdulai Imoro, John Chodacki (for part of the meeting)

Apologies: 


### Non-verbal updates



* Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes -  [A motion was made, seconded and approved](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/2023/EC-minutes-2023-02-21-Q1.md) to accept the [December 2022 special election meeting minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/2022/EC-special-meeting-2022-12-14.md), and the [Q1 2023 meeting minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/2023/EC-minutes-2023-02-21-Q1.md).
* [Approval of The Carpentries Executive Director Succession Plan](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/motions.md#approval-of-the-executive-director-succession-plan) - The Executive Council reviewed and approved the succession plan for The Carpentries Executive Director at the 2023 EC retreat.





### Agenda Item 23/08: Curriculum Development

Presented by Toby Hodges, Carpentries Core Team Member

* Curriculum Development Strategy
    * Each Lesson program has a Lesson Program governance committee
    * Each Curriculum has a Curriculum Advisory Committee
    * Each lesson has a group of maintainers
* Established lesson governance committees recently
* Relaunched curriculum advisors program
* Rehauled maintainer onboarding and offboarding
* Erin has spent a lot of time working on onboarding/offboarding and developing a rubric. This helps the groups know how to better work together
    * Two groups working together to make decision:
        * Maintainers
        * Curriculum Advisors
    * The model has been established and it has been effective in helping with communication between maintainers and advisors. Revealed additional gaps.
        * Challenges: how we attract and engage community
            * While we have built a culture of contribution, the community contributions have been focused on small changes, ex. typos. Larger scaled changes has been more difficult to get engagement on, as well as how to communicate these changes
            * Large amount of the curriculum team efforts are focused on contributor experience management
* Curriculum Assessment Strategy
    * Kelly Barnes has been working on this
        * Currently working on deliverables of Moore Foundation Grant, due at the end of 2023
        * Focusing on 3 aspects:
            * Quality
            * Popularity
            * Strength of Community that supports
        * Metrics have been developed to assess each of the 3 aspects  - hard to assess some of these 
        * Q: How can you measure the ease of maintainer and Curriculum Advisory Committee recruitment? 
        * A:  No full answer yet. When we have been running rounds of recruitment for maintainer/curriculum advisory onboarding - we have been noting the ease of recruiting people for these teams. How easy did it feel to do it?
            * Comment: In popularity, the request and willingness to translate can be a very interesting metric.
                * Reply: I believe this metric could fit under community strength as well.
        * In the short term, immediate impact- use the assessment to improve process. Knowing where maintainers will need help earlier on.
            * Automated impact reports for maintainers, how often their lessons are being taught, etc.
            * Help with knowing when to retire lessons in the future
            * Informing the adoption of lessons 
            * Will help make informed decisions on what we want to coordinate community effort toward 
        * Time for this discussion was extended by 10 minutes.
* Questions:
    * Is there interest with maintainers and curriculum advisors to do support activities as well?
        * Some interest that varies from lesson to lesson, curriculum to curriculum. Might need to revisit, but this is explicitly against what they were told they were told to expect to do in onboarding. The CAC should recommend that the community does the larger activities, and the maintainers and curriculum groups would be there to advise
    * What do we think about translation with new curricula? Yani is the program committee, which reviews proposals for new curriculum. It is not clear what the committee should be looking for. Maybe it would be good to work together on this.
        * Toby is looking forward to talking more about the HPC application. Translation was not a topic in this presentation, but know this is something we need to talk about. It is on the roadmap for the curriculum team. 
    * What would help in going forward? e.g., helping hand, external curriculum experts, ..?
        * Would like to see a contributor experience lead work within the curriculum team. Not sure where we are to make that happen.
        * There is an agenda item to talk with EC about staffing needs. It is on the list of hires we need to make ASAP when we have the funding. Will present the staffing plan at the core team retreat after EC gives feedback.

### Agenda Item 23/08: 2022 Financial Report Review

Presented by Talisha Sutton-Kennedy, Carpentries Core Team Member

* Currently working on the financial report. Did share the draft with the finance committee. Will share with whole Executive Council once ready.
    

### Agenda Item 23/09: Review Q1 2023 Financials 

Presented by Talisha Sutton-Kennedy, Carpentries Core Team Member

* Jan-March 2023
* Starting balance: 1,701,672
* Info is in the budget doc as well
* Grants were 64% of what we budgeted
* Large percent came from fundraising and grants. Grant funding shifts as it comes in. Were not able to bring some things in this quarter (grant-wise) but will come in later
* DIfference for programs was 77,000. That is a few Gold memberships so if we do more communication it may get us closer to the goal throughout the year
* We do see some quarters that are less than and some that are more than we anticipated. Hope to make this up throughout the rest of the year
* We spent less than anticipated. Want to see that we spent less than or exactly what we anticipated
* Balance decreased by 149,000 because we spent more than we brought in
* Overall balance (_worse case scenario not bridging in any other funds_) will cover us for 6.8 months
* Overview
    * Both income and expenses were less than anticipated
    * Received grant funds for Code for Society
* Highlights: programmatic revenue areas are slightly short of what we anticipated.
* Did receive some funds for curriculum training that aren't in the budget, Will supplement. Look forward to that this year as the collaborative lesson development training it released
* Have a few things on the horizon
    * Partnered with Morehouse College on a grant with the Sloan foundation. Written in on a sub award = $74,000. 
    * 3 letters of inquiry for general operating expenses
    * Continue to work on sponsorship program
    * Meeting with a foundation to give funding for long term sustainability. Could not fund us until 2024 but this could potentially go into our new bank account if fiscal sponsorship changes align.
    * Working hard to raise funds. Mike will share resources for the finance committee to help Executive Council advocate and raise money
* Questions:
    * Membership income was quite off. Why the discrepancy?
        * Don’t have an explanation for the difference in estimate. The past 2 years we have been very conservative with estimates, so we usually feel like we exceeded our estimates. This year Talisha was a bit less conservative and did increase the estimate by 10% from what we made last year. The actuals for this are not necessarily unreasonable. This also included people paying in Q1, could be a result in delayed invoicing, extended procurement. We are working on bettering this so that we can better estimate when funds will come in. Talisha will try to ensure that every month we have twice as much membership revenue in processing. Then if 50% of those get paid out we will make the goals. If everything goes well we average 65 days of processing memberships. Longest case is 6 months.


### Agenda Item 23/10: Updates from the Executive Director - 10 min (Kari)

Presented by Kari L. Jordan, Executive Director for the Carpentries

* Feedback from Executive Council retreat
    * What worked: 
        * Length/placement of breaks. Plenty of relaxation time/personal time/etc
        * Standing committee time
        * Objectives were clear - knew what needed to be accomplished
        * Flexibility of agenda
    * What did not work:
        * Location - unfortunately could not anticipate in advance. The noise was distracting
        * Hybrid made spread in times zones which was inconvenient for some
        * Holiday period- Easter, Ramadan, etc.
        * Facilitation of Walk Together needed improvement
        * Team building activities need work
    * Vote for next retreat- either South Africa (ZA) or United States (US)
        * 5 - ZA, 2- US, 3 - either - ZA wins! Will be hybrid. 
        * Considered who will be returning, who has VISAs for the US. Carpentry Con 2025 will be in ZA, would be a good idea for EC to go the year before to show support.
        * Want to figure out what month is best. This will be a large chunk of the EC now, so can decide. 
        * Winter is May-August in ZA. 
        * February/March might be a great time to have the retreat. Early team building, the new term will have started. 
            * Additional discussion of dates that work or don’t work for individual EC members
            * Weeks of February:
                * The week of the 5 or the week of the 12
                * If you require a VISA or letter, please being working on that
                * Will do our best to ensure that we have it at a time everyone can attend
                * Will have updates at the August meeting
* Staffing Plan beyond Fiscal sponsorship
    * Currently working with a HR manager at code for science and society pro-bono to do an audit of our titles/job descriptions
    * Would like to have 1 admin/coordinator for each program
    * Doing fundraising 
* Strategic planning process feedback will come in August meeting
* Instructor notes drive
    * Effort to get the community to update our Instructor notes with strategies, tips, ideas
    * Welcome EC members stopping by these sessions
    * Blog post for more info
* Core Team Retreat
    * Davenport FLorida
    * 5-8 June
    * All CT members will be there
* EC hosted community call
    * 14 June
    * Please check your calendar and let Kari know if you can make it - do not need everyone there, had 4 at last call
    * Want to raise awareness about of governance and what the EC does
    * Mike, John, Abdulai, Jannetta, Nisha are potentially able to attend. If you can still make it, please accept the calendar invite!
* Accelerating the Adoption of Open Science
    * Anything you want Kari to share, anything you want to know - tell Kari 
* Please take a moment to check out the [blog posts that Kari shared in the slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1J0QlYfHh2l2IiwljWUsTY8JBzWJowVpGeHcicmWF8v8/edit#slide=id.g1e239c209c7_0_267)
    * Great overview of what we’ve done in Q1
* Questions

### Agenda Item  23/11 Committee Reports

* Officers Committee
    * Had meeting at Executive Council retreat
    * Timeline for reviewing contract/compensation of Executive Director
    * Discussed how Officers committee can support Kari during the fiscal sponsorship transition
    * The new board will have additional 4-5 members. Kari has a selection of candidates. Will discuss with Kari further.
    * Questions/comments:
* Finance Committee
    * Committee approved the charter
    * Completed Q1 financial report review with Talisha
    * Request to ensure we coordinate including up to 25,000 USD for Executive Director Succession planning - this will be held until we need to use it. We will plan to do this and Executive Council will be able to approve
    * Also planning for fiscal sponsorship transition - How might we set up bank accounts, what kind of accounts, dividing accounts between banks
    * Revenue generation strategies for general operations and events like carpentry con
    * Capital Campaign promotion - resources for moving a potential membership/sponsorship forward -_ anyone can use!_
        * Great doc to initiate a convo around supporting sponsorship
        * Written version of an elevator pitch for The Carpentries
            * Not always in a position to quickly say what we do and here is how to support
            * Doc pulls everything together to share high level info for potential sponsors - what we do, our purpose, activities we provide, where we are going!
            * Anyone can use this document to send info to potential sponsors
        * The Executive Team has been working on a workflow for how to move forward with a sponsorship - the steps to doing so
            * The Call Formula is a step by step doc on how we engage and how to have a conversation with potential sponsors. Includes questions to ask and follow-up
    * Questions/Comments:
        * Should translate the promotion resources to other languages!
        * We don’t have an agreement for donating to the org. The finance committee has created the docs to help Executive Council members discuss funding with others. 
            * Share resources with the institution/community you’re in for membership/sponsorship/general funding. What is your comfort level in using these?
                * These are very useful for when the opportunity shows up to share. May not have anyone in network to send these to.
                * Very happy/willing to advocate for funding. One on one coaching, knowing where to target would be helpful. How can we keep each other accountable for those willing to do the advocating?
* Governance Committee
    * Discussed year’s goals/deliverable
        * Election, review of bylaws. A lot will be happening on the calendar - reviewed and discussed
    * Discussed the succession plan for Executive Director. Approved during the Executive Council retreat.
    * Elections 
        * Discussed resourcing
        * Assigned the elections officer - Nisha
    * Questions/Comments:
            * Like having the calendar laid out for the committees. Nice to be able to view the whole year. Made the first meeting more streamlined.
* Program Committee
    * Able to meet during the retreat!
    * Goals and deliverables
        * Changed a bit
    * Participated in Carpentries Convo with Community
    * Process/rubric to review the policies documents
    * Reviewed the HPC lesson proposal and application for incubation
        * Found the proposal adequate using the review checklist
        * Requested additional info from authors. Core Team asked for a meeting to talk about the proposal before next steps. 17 May the Core Team will meet with the Executive Council program committee to discuss.
            * For future, should have discussion with Core Team before review. The process needs to be rearranged here. The opinion of the Core Team is important - need their opinions heard
    * Questions/comments: 
        * Comment of agreement about the process. There was some confusion surrounding communication. There could be some clarity regarding when the Core Team feedback needs to be received. Thanks for letting the Core Team come to the meeting! Do have workflows in place when it comes to time for implementation. 
            * The committee does have an answer to those questions, but will discuss in the next meeting. Should have the proposal and the feedback from the Core Team before making the decision about next steps.

### Agenda Item 23/12: Approval of Standing Committee Charters

* **Motion: I move to approve the EC standing committee charters for 2023**
    * **Maker: Konrad Förstner; Second: Sarah Stevens; Voting: The motion passes by consensus**

### Agenda Item 23/13: Poll for August Executive Council meeting
