# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for Q4 2025-12-17

## **Present on 2025-12-17**: 

Yani, Erin, Kari, Eboni, François, Jannetta, Luke, Mark, Pao, Phil, Sam, Yo


## Minutes for Agenda Items:

### Call to Order

### Approve Previous Meeting Minutes

Approved by consensus

### Review Q3 Financial Report - Erin Becker

* Financials updates  
  * Q2 performed strongly which has cumulative effects on Q3: overall the carpentries is better off than planned in Q3, but when looking at Q3 alone this may not be obvious.  
  * Grants status :   
    * Most grants proceeding as expected.   
    * The grant that was repeatedly delayed is partially paid, but around ⅓ still to come (hopefully).  
    * 69% of the total expected amount has been paid, expecting another 31%   
  * Forecasts:   
    * Previous year forecast anticipated $108k, but this is outdated as towards the end of the year  
    * Cash forecast is more realistic; anticipating over $200k-$300k in real-world bank balance for end of Q4 2025 and early 2026  
    * Expected to be cash positive until October 2026  
    * Questions:  
      * Does the accrual accounting method will smooth out these peaks/drops we see in the cash method?  
        * Yes, as the grants will be accounted on a monthly basis  
      *  Will there still be cash forecast once accounting in accruals?   
        * Yes, because known bank balances are essential in a business.   
      * Will there be an accrual forecast too?   
        * A: TBC, Erin and Mark to catch up via email later.   
      *    
  * Membership outreach has resulted in 51% of the membership revenue this year: highly impactful program.   
    * Q: If we have an institution to recommend for membership outreach, how should we link you up?   
      * A: Please do email intro if possible with Erin/Kari, or if not, email the name of the institution to them as a suggestion to reach out to.   
    * Q: Who should I link in when I'm talking to my own uni?   
      * A: Email Erin please. Very happy to meet and present to them.   
* Budget Introduction  
  * Major Anticipated changes  
    * Shift from cash to accrual accounting  
      * (suggest a link here explaining difference rather than trying to minute it)   
      * More compliant with GAAP- Generally Accepted Accounting Principles required Federally.   
      * Q: Are memberships handled via accrual over a year?   
        * A: Yes.   
      * Important: Reports showing a net loss is not necessarily a cashflow in accrual accounting.  
    * Rollout of new partnership model \- launching in April 2026  
    * Transition of human resources providers  
      * Now two separate HR provides for USA / non-USA. This will impact budget due to higher deposits at start of year and differences in service fees / benefit package costs.   
      *   
  * Partnership details  
    * More flexible, plus discounts for orgs that provide in-kind time (e.g. CoC committee membership or other kinds of service).  
    * Existing members will run until contract ends, meaning that transitions to partnership income is staggered and will be reflected in two different categories in the budget, until the transition is complete.   
    * Concern from Sam: 8% increase for partnership costs may result in partners dropping to a lower price tier. UK and USA unis very cash-strapped.   
  *  Anticipated net deficit of \~400k for 2026\. This is not a cashflow problem but reflects the accruals budgeting and is expected and normal.   
    * Team discussed this: somewhat concerned that the budget doesn’t reflect clear “sales” or “income” targets to fill in the $400k deficit (which will be required eventually if the carpentries is to stay afloat).   
      * Kari pointing out that we need to approve this budget and be happy   
    * **BUDGET Approval by consensus** after confirmation that nonprofits are indeed expected to burn down their cash   
  * Kari: Recurring Donor/Giving program strategy is my focus for 2026\.  
  * Cost of living increase for salaries  
  * Travel reduction, as no grant-dedicated funds for travel this year. 

### Standing Committee Reports - Committee Chairs 

* Audit committee: First 990 filed, well done\!   
  * Finance: Completed banking, investment and reserve strategy/policies  
  * Governance and Personnel: Executive compensation policy.   
    * Some cultural clarification needed here: Performance-based pay increases are normal in the USA but uncommon in some other countries.   
    * This is not deemed to be the same as bonuses (which the Carpentries does not offer). 	  
    * Exec performance-based pay increase would only be considered if the entire team, *including the exec* would get the same pay raise.   
    * Board advisor role motion **approved by consensus**.   
    * COO Role: To be approved offline/async  
  * Program committee: HPC Carpentry hopefully coming up as a formal lesson program, vote in next board meeting.   
  * Reminder: Committees: please meet monthly and be comfortable with people being missing at some meetings because of a round world ;) 

### Review and Discussion of Strategic Plan Activities  - Kari L. Jordan 
* Exec: Next strategic plan:   
  * Q: Why three years when the last one was five?   
    * A: Too long a time horizon with uncertainty.   
* Exec: All-committee governance convening:   
  * Main outcome theme: This should continue\! Twice a year, so it’s not too burdensome.   
  * Quarterly governance digest to be published: Who met, what outcomes were.   
* CoC committee update: Team meeting and handling reports, some committee membership change, \+ 5 new members onboarding.   
  * Q: Is it appropriate for CoC board liaison to also be incident response lead or is that too much work?   
  * A: Generally this is a time-sensitive but low-time-burden role, so good choice for board liaison who checks their email a lot ;)   
* Changes to the BoD  
  * Pao raises concerns about the fact that the roles have been designated without broader consultation of the entire board  
  * Kari shares rationale  
    * Given goals for the BoD for the upcoming year, Kari proposed some names based on availability and skills   
    * Kari opens up option to open roles to everyone  
  * Pao suggests that moving forward we make sure that everyone has a chance to nominate themselves for these roles



### Adjournment

###  [Add name here] at [Time]
