# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for Q2 2025-05-22

## **Present on 2025-05-22**: 

Samantha, Erin, Yani, Pao, Jannetta, Kari, Stephanie, Luke, Mark, Nisha, Yo, Danielle, Eboni, Phil

## **Apologies**: 

None recorded. 

## Minutes for Agenda Items:

### Call to Order

### Approve Previous Meeting Minutes

(Approved by email prior to this meeting). 

### Review and Discussion of Strategic Plan Activities  - Kari L. Jordan 

* Executive Director Updates  
  * Strategic Plan 2020-2025  
    * CT is completing a retrospective and impact report  
      * Time during CT staff meetings to pull historical data and identify measures of success  
      * Learned that retrospective reports are difficult \- our next strategic plan will have indicators of success at the start of the plan  
    * Kari will give a preliminary analysis of the metrics (how the org has thrived, and what we didn’t complete) at the Q3 Board meeting   
    * Questions:  
      * How much is it worth chasing old indicators beyond the usefulness of knowing the indicators you want next time? Is this something you can learn from?  
        * We are not spending a lot of time on this \- broke it down to two 90 min co-working sessions a month from Apr-Sept during existing meetings  
        * Learning a lot about how to refine implementation for next iteration  
      * What format will the results be communicated in? Will it be different for the next set of goals we’ll report out on?  
        * Top of mind is who we haven’t heard from in the community (local communities doing great work but aren’t getting all of the information). We’ll present this more as story telling narrative rather than charts and graphs.   
        * Will also include information stating we know that this isn’t the full story and do a call to action to find stories we are missing.  
  * Bridge Strategic plan  
    * Thank you to the Board for approving high-level strategic goals\!  
    * Program committee has already begun to talk about this  
    * What is the best format and cadence for the Board to receive information on the progress of the plan?  
      * Please share ideas with Kari Jordan  
    * Questions:  
      * How much work vs. benefit do you find around providing these updates?  
        * Yes \- it helps with accountability.   
        * Forces the ET to take stock, what’s going well, what do we need to shift   
      * Would it help to do this more frequently than a quarterly basis?  
        * Quarterly is generally a good amount of time \- time to collect info, update infrastructure and communications, etc.  
        * At the internal staff level there are additional check-ins \- ET reports to team leads weekly, etc.  
  * International Expansion Roadmap  
    * Establishing an entity outside of the US will give the org access to other funding opportunities or increase brand awareness in other communities  
    * Questions/Comments  
      * Keeping the values and mission will be key \- paying attention to if we are changing things why are we doing it  
        * (if we setup in NZ would we offer collaborative development or focus only on Instructor Training)  
        * Should consider member organisations. Also consider if there were member orgs that we lost, what needs weren’t being met and can choosing their country be beneficial. Stages one and two should happen consecutively or close together    
        * Working where you have allies is important and sometimes legally mandatory  
      * Have been considering this for a while anyway, this nudge puts it higher on the priority list  
      * Is there a propensity of orgs that are similar to The Carpentries in size and nature that are located in another country? For example, a lot of people located in Denmark because of XYZ.  
        * Most conversations have been about countries to stay away from bc of political climate, lack of infrastructure, etc.  
        * There are two or three EU orgs that are similar to what The Carpentries is doing, [Programming Historian](https://programminghistorian.org/) is another example, Code Refinery  
        * Important to keep a dual strategy where you still remain in the US for funding reasons  
        * of an org doing similar work that  
    * Important but not urgent \- still focusing on funding  
      * In your committees please continue to discuss, add links/comments to t[he doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J71PsSJKIK8u25oPdvGTZTNje0uCzmH50cjXPqU6XgQ/edit?tab=t.0). Let Kari know if there are other people Kari should be speaking to when considering this work  
  * Evaluation Plan for Transitioning out of Fiscal Sponsorship  
    * There was a lot we couldn’t do as a fiscally sponsored project  
    * Important to find out if what we intended to happen did happen  
    * Erin and Kari put together an [Evaluation Plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ircjh3JHAxvFy5EQgz_qP-JtQfiQUTFTTWragwF-IjA/edit?tab=t.0)  
      * Questions that will be asked, how the indicators will be measured, and timeline  
      * Consider: Is there anything missing that should be added?   
    * What are job plan percentages?  
      * Core Team monthly planning for time spent working in different programmatic areas
     
### Review Q1 Financial Report - Erin Becker
* Q1 Financial Report  
  * Slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15-\_qfPczeNXPhALuWOVA6Oj8ovhedhCIyeNz2tn7SaE/edit?slide=id.g239c3e0303f\_0\_57\#slide=id.g239c3e0303f\_0\_57](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15-_qfPczeNXPhALuWOVA6Oj8ovhedhCIyeNz2tn7SaE/edit?slide=id.g239c3e0303f_0_57#slide=id.g239c3e0303f_0_57)	  
  * January \- March  
  * Budget  
    * Income \- 92% collected  
    * Expenses 103% spent  
    * Balance at end of quarter: 220,950 (201,435 budgeted)  
  * Comparison to Q4 2024  
    * Brought in significantly greater income  
    * Expenses increased but not enough to overtake the increased income  
  * Q1 FInancial Position  
    * We are not at 3.6 months operational expenses  
      * Due to receiving funds from Sloan Grant  
  * Grants  
    * Mellon- fully paid and nothing lost  
    * Strudel \- Invoicing monthly, dont plan to lose anything  
    * IMLS \- grant suspended, may be reinstated. CUrrently lost 96,776 but unsure of status  
    * GREI \- 4,000 left to invoice, plan to receive all funds  
    * Sloan \- final payment will be given by end of July or Sloan will be taking action against them. Funds are overdue.  
    * MITRE \- Grant suspended, do not plan to receive the 90,722  
    * We anticipate that 38% is still left to receive and 23% will be lost (unless IMLS is reinstated)  
  * Forecast  
    * Conservative in estimating our income \- used last years numbers  
    * We have exceeded our new funding goal through the Sloan operational sustainability grant  
    * Plan to end year with 1 month of expenses remaining in the bank account as we did last year  
    * Cash forecast slide: Accurate forecast only shows funds contractually obligated \- ending balance through the cash forecast ends the year better off   
      * Why would we lose so much in Q4?  
        * We had earmarked new grant funding as coming in Q3 and Q4 but we already received it. We plan to continue to work on funding so hope to see that increase.  
      * What happens if you do hit a low balance at the end of the year?  
        * There is a plan with a cash forecast where the ET will take specific steps. Erin or Kari will send out the info after the meeting  
        * Would know well in advance, will be checking in by June. Will increase membership outreach if needed.   
        * Have increased our checkpoints since the crises in 2023  
          * Have weekly, monthly checks and updates with team leads  
    * Continuing efforts to bring in memberships and sponsorships  
    * What does the outreach process look like? Who do you reach out to and how do you identify who?  
      * Started by looking at orgs that had been members in the past but hadnt been reinstated or renewed   
        * Started contacting old contacts/looking for new contacts  
        * Have been successful in reinstating some members this way  
      * Looked at Instructors who have taught workshops, looked at LinkedIn to see where Instructors have moved to to bring in institutional memberships there  
      * 5 team members are working on this with weekly checks  
      * Brought in $152,925 since beginning Membership Outreach   
      * Are there ways you could use help that would allow you to reach a broader audience?  
        * We don’t have marketing strategies in the sense of broad scaled scattered comms. Could look into this  
        * Reaching out to potential member contacts \- have templated, tracking processes. This still allows us to do some personalized outreach. 

### Annual Report and Financial Report Draft Review  
  * [Publication of The Carpentries 2024 Annual Report | The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/05/publication-of-the-carpentries-2024-annual-report/)

### Standing Committee Reports - Committee Chairs 

#### Audit  
  * All links are in the Board packet  
    * Checked on insurance the Carpentries holds \- is appropriate and signed off on  
    * Monitor risk and risk strategies in place  
      * Asked Kari to work with the committee on contingency plans  
      * Worked through risk management for DEI and the US government  
    * There are many orgs in identical positions \- we are not alone  
      * ACLU has been giving legal advice   
        * Recommend being alert but not alarmed  
        * If there is an executive order the IRS would have to initiate a review of specific orgs tax exempt status. Unless the process is first changed, an exec order would not have immediate impact on The Carpentries  
          * Have written in check points for different scenarios  
    * NSF put out new guidelines that anyone who is to receive and NSF grant is not to engage in DEI activities \- may have to pull ourselves out of the funding we are in consideration for  
      * This is for new grants, that were put in place after the changes were made  
      * In general this is a continuously evolving situation   
    * Are there any private orgs beginning to try and fill the void and create more enablement?   
      * Not aware of this but Erin will discuss with Kari  
  #### Finance  
    * Reviewed Q1 finance statements  
    * Discussions around grant funding and what to do next in case things change for the worse  
      * Finance committee will be helping ET to strategize   
    * Will discuss revenue generation in the future  
  #### Governance and Personnel  
    * Spent time getting acquainted with the committee  
    * Identify opportunities/gaps for Board acquisition toward the end of the year  
    * Discussed pay increase strategy \- will be meeting with Kari to understand the history/data to understand the ebb and flow  
      * Erin can help with this information for all positions   
      * Will be the focus of the next session  
    * Succession planning for Executive Director  
      * Worked on this in the previous iteration of the Board  
      * Luke will work with Nisha to find out if he already has it  
    * Challenging to get the groups together with timezones and geographies and commitments   
    * How can the Board and G\&P support the Core Team/staff as these changes are happening in the US government and across the world?  
  #### Program Committee  
    * [Establish the desired format for reviewing quarterly progress on The Carpentries strategic plan (draft)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CPCBGTM3QCgWTJhIeibM6Vq-uzOae4tDRA0El07fuZ8/edit?tab=t.0)  
      * Will give the draft and agreeable shape in the next meeting  
      * Challenging to coordinate meeting times  

  ### Other
      
  * Eboni is nearing her time to either renew or retire from the Board  
    * Will have to asynchronously meet about this
 

### Adjournment

