# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for 2025-02-06 (Q1 2025)

## **Present on 2025-02-06**: 

Yani, Nisha, Pao, Stephanie, Mark, Phil, Yo, Sam, Francois, Luke, Jannetta, Erin, Kari, Danielle

## **Apologies**: 

Eboni

## Minutes for Agenda Items:

### Call to Order

### Review 2024 Q4 Financial Report - Erin Becker
* 2024 Financials  
  * Q3 and Q4 grant breakdowns for comparison  
    * [Q3-2024-Grant-breakdown.jpg](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18ZtV-8W84Hh6Wa-c3KI_mO6Ne28_BlfI/view?usp=drive_link)  
    * [Q4-2024-Grant-breakdown.jpg](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P6bgMM-hIIzG6htF7WwOyuyJRzRr-I0l/view?usp=drive_link)  
  * [Q4 2024 Quarterly Financials Update.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NqQvyyYQOgUlDQCyDOZr7xim1MDgUHeG/view?usp=drive_link)  
    * October \- December 2024  
    * Budgeted 391,000 and collected 39% of our budget  
      * Due to delays in grant payment  
      * We have received or will receive those funds in 2025  
    * Q4 budget gaps were due to timing of grants in 2024, what were the reasons for gaps in 2023?  
      * Had anticipated an increase in membership income and actually saw a decrease  
        * The differential was anticipated in 2024s budget  
    * The shortfall in the previous year, was it due to fewer memberships than we anticipated joining or did we have difficulties collecting promised funds?  
      * It was due to fewer memberships than anticipated. We did not have difficulties collecting the promised funds.  
    * Our income increased in 2024 compared to 2023, our expenses decreased  
      * Need to take steps to continue increasing our income in 2025  
    * We have received several of our grant payments already in 2025 that were due for 2024  
      * Grants have been aligned with current work to decrease overhead and allow us to focus on our mission driven work. They are supplemental while we work on other funding  
        * [A list of grants and their status can be found in the slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NqQvyyYQOgUlDQCyDOZr7xim1MDgUHeG/view?usp=drive_link)   
    * How much of the grant funding was not received in 2024?  
      * Sloan/Howard (91,000)  
      * A portion of STRUDEL grant  
      * Erin can send slides of comparative breakdowns from 2024- 2025 with details  
    * Why was the 4162 forfeited?  
      * Unspent travel funds on that grant. It has been challengin in terms of admin. Thought it would be paid out in a lump sum, but it was paid as an invoice and we had passed the time to schedule travel  
    * Anticipate to end Q4 2025 with approximately one month left in the bank as we did in 2024, but this is a very conservative projection  
      * Have secured significantly more funding in Q1 than we had originally planned for when the budget was created  
      * The cash forecast only includes money that is already contractually obligated, so it does not include the Sloan grant.   
    * Increased efforts toward membership and a la carte outreach to increase revenue  
      * Focusing on re-engaging past members successfully  
        * Executive Director, Kari Jordan, has led this effort  
      * Being recommended for funding for a 1.5 million NSF grant  
        * Only the first stage in a several stage process \- funds may or may not be received so these funds are not included in the cash projection  
    * DO we know why we lost members? Even for those who we’ve been able to regain?  
      * Some cases it was due to staff turnover, the person who had been previously managing the membership left and didnt turn it over  
      * Some cases it was due to funding and those have been more difficult to reinstate  
      * Did they worry about the quality or was it a lack of funds purely?  
        * Consistently do not have concerns about the quality of our programming, it is due to lack of funding  
    * The second slide forecasts 2025s cash balance \- funds that have been contractually obligated. Does not include memberships we are planning to renew  
    * What are our short-medium goals for operating expenses at the end of the year?  
      * Goal is 6 months, but learning from other orgs of a similar size, it is not realistic. Would love for the finance committee to have a conversation about this. Staff should feel safe about getting paid, should be able to build programming. Constantly discuss and revise strategies for revenue generation, will always strive for 6 months of operating expenses. However, it is not always realistic.   
    * It could be beneficial to have a reliance where we can say we can float eachother if there is a month or so where it is needed  
    * What happens if the liquid balance gets too low?  
      * There is a contingency planning document that was deployed in 2024\. Associate DIrector, Erin Becker,  and Executive Director, Kari Jordan, would take a pay cut first, other roles/pay may be cut. 


### Personnel changeovers

#### Vote on officers

* Motion: 
    * **I move to appoint the following Officers of The Carpentries Board of Directors**:  
        * Chair: Yanina Bellini Saibene  
        * Vice Chair: Phillip Brooks  
        * Secretary: Yo Yehudi  
        * Treasurer: François Michonneau  
    * **Maker:** Mark Crowe, **Second:** Nisha Ghatak  
    * **Passed by consensus**

#### Vote to extend Yani term as a member of the board

* **Motion**: I move to extend Yani Bellini Saibene’s term as a member of the board  
    * **Maker:** Stephanie Pulford **Second:** Mark Crowe
    * This motion is approved by consensus

#### Vote on Standing Committees  
  * Per the bylaws, each director should serve on at least one committee.  
    * [Program](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JAzBMjJ3TvIPPruQMYyvaRgrTbcTJXF0xagZr1xXfGA/edit?usp=drive_link)  
    * [Governance and Personnel](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sH6HXDO0Ffast9rJmic2rxRlbqvPNZkBBUMn0uE780E/edit?usp=drive_link)  
    * [Finance](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zbqrhVlPTkLhGHLLJdyv5tAqSPQ2IMY2JfYwOCC1dfg/edit?usp=drive_link)  
    * [Audit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ybrzsxpybIVCdupw81I_Hs6VGSHXgtthDLixsXJYenc/edit?usp=drive_link)  
  * **Motion:** I move to appoint standing committees as outlined on page 7 of the Q12025 Board book.  
    * **Maker:** Yo Yehudi  **Second:** Phillip Brooks  
    * **This motion is approved by consensus**  
* Discussion: Program and G\&P helps to have more people so that there can be better discussion and move things forward when not everyone can make a meeting.  
    * Can re-allocate in May if needed  
* **Motion:** 
    * I move to appoint the following Standing Committee Chairs:  
        * Program: Nisha Ghatak  
        * Governance & Personnel: Luke Corbin  
        * Finance: Paola Corrales  
        * Audit: Mark Crowe  
    * **Maker:** Yo Yehudi  **Second:** Samantha Ahern  
    * **This motion is approved by consensus**

- Notes:
    - Vice-Chair is to shadow the chair and take over after the current chair’s term is finished. Vice-Chair in charge of running a meeting that the chair cannot attend.
    - Secretary will make minutes out of the notes that the administrator takes during the meetings and distribute. 
    - Do we re-elect chair every year? It is optional.


### Generative discussion

* Generative Discussion  
  * Bridge strategic plan (2026-2028)  
    * Continued conversation from yesterday  
    * Board’s Role: Approve high-level goals  
      * Management will work on metrics and implementation  
    * Feedback on how to refine the higher-level goals of [the long-form document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y0H_FVtePoqsTlEVBf75xrW2AYnvRH62IGp011QDT7Q/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.etulutdzbxa8)  
      * Goal 2, can you explain the definition of revenue?  
        * Umbrella term for all of the ways The Carpentries receive money  
          * Individual donations, grants from private foundations, sub-awards through other org grants that partner with the carpentries to do training, etc., a la carte programming (one off workshops/instructor trainin), funding through membership program (institution pays the carpentries a fee annually and receive priority access to training and workshops), corporate sponsorship program that is not as popular.  
          * Do not have the bandwidth to support the corporate sponsorship program   
        * Is this a specific goal or a broader goal of trying to drive growth in all of the revenue categories to improve financial viability?  
          * Broader goal to increase unrestricted revenue for the org (not tied to a particular project). Most successful unrestricted revenue is the membership program. How do we leverage our membership program do drive revenue for the organisation?  
          * Related to the Membership Model Task Force  
        * Do we have any transformation based goals? New revenue streams that do or dont align currently with the Carpentries? Or partnerships we dont currently have?  
          * Currently consulting is being considered as a new form of revenue. Currently the Carpentries COre Team does a lot of work around this free of charge. WIll stay mission aligned.   
          * Working on a document around a strategic aliance \- what can we offer and what would we want to recieve. Paused this to focus on fiscal sponsorship transition, but Kari is leading.  
        * Engage in orgs like RSA for guidance on who to reach out to around the AI conversation.   
          * Goal 1 \- Toby has put together a potential partner list. SSI, RSA, etc. We will definitely leverage our partnership with other orgs.  
        * Goal 2 \- we also need to highlight sustainability   
        * Goal 1 \- do we have evidence/data that convinces us that adding these is going to improve our membership situation? Want to ensure that whatever returns are generated allow us to continue to exist.  
          * Yes, we currently have a lot of activity in our incubator from membership orgs who want to see lessons on the incubator lessons  
          * Erin is focusing on funding partnerships with Institutions that want to give the carpentries money to give others the tools to build lessons  
            * We need to make sure these topics are sustainable and not hot topics  
        * We need to add something in the goals about succession planning  
        * Strategic plan typically has to be very focused. How expansive do we need to be with this plan?  
          * This plan is a two-year plan that focuses on our transition. We will have a new plan that will be created with the Boards support when it is time  
        * Goal 1 reflects past conversations had \- The Carpentries is great at the foundational stuff \- we can’t throw in advanced stuff without having something in between. Have to make sure we aren’t doing things just because they get us money or they are the cool thing. Whatever we are doing has to align with The Carpentries' mission and vision. While we are looking at new things we have to keep that in mind. We also have to make sure things that we are working on are allowable in a research setting  
          * Caution is necessary and it will drive the questions that come out of the needs assessment and how we survey the community  
        * Chat GPT is not open sourced but there are many AI tools and technology that are open sourced. Evaluating and learning how to properly incorporate according to law and common sense is an evergreen topic. We need to provide them because if we don’t people without our mission will provide them. It is those developing the lessons job to make sure these things fit. There is a lot out there that does not conflict our mission.   
        * Refine goal 1:  
          * What we actually want to do (focus on one topic)   
          * Timeline (Everything is done by volunteers so it takes more time to accomplish things).   
        * Adapt whatever is necessary in the training material and lessons in a good way  
        * Consider tweaking the pedagogical approach to deliver different content  
      * Kari will review notes and comments, refine the document, and send out for an asynchronous vote  
  * President Donald Trump’s DEI Ban: Impact and The Carpentries Response  
    * Non-profits have responded in many different ways  
      * Legal action, scrubbing website, eliminate roles, issue calls to action, etc.  
      * Shift terms not values  
        * Ideas for continuing the work and keeping within your values  
          * Recommendations for funders  
            * Change your keywords  
              * Fair representation  
              * Equal opportunity for all  
          * There may be opportunity for other countries to step up and support work that the US is no longer able to   
          * Shifting language is not a long term solution \- we will not be changing anything on The Carpentries’ website  
        * Do we have an assessment of how much risk there is to the pressure this administration is creating? If little, there may be nothing we should consider.  
          * In terms of federal awards \- beyond the 1.5   
          * We don’t depend on federal awards. Private foundations they are concerned about legal actions that the government can take.  We need a most revenue robust strategy.  
          *  Could we be impacted in regard to subawards because of things we have on our website?  
            * We currently have 6 subawards and we have spoken with those on the projects \- we don’t currently have sub awards ties to DEI but it will always be a conversation  
          * Remember that we are a global community so if we need to make a statement or take action remember we are not only in the US.  
          * How much does The Carpentries want to go on a messaging offense if we were to lose funding, etc.?  
            * We are having those conversations internally as a staff  
        * We should leverage the fact that we are a global community and there is work (memberships, etc.) outside of the country that we can depend on


### Adjournment
