# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for Q3 2025-08-14

## **Present on 2025-08-14**: 

Phil, Yo, Samantha, Yanina, Erin, Luke, Kari, Stephanie, Danielle, Francois, Eboni

## Minutes for Agenda Items:

### Call to Order

### Approve Previous Meeting Minutes

Approved by consensus

### Review Q2 Financial Report - Erin Becker

* [Q2 2025 Quarterly Financials Update - BoD.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UikKy4Cf5Sh47t_4cjB38h8E9oBzJPP_/view?usp=drive_link)  
  * Q2 is from 1 April \- 30 June  
    * Income \- included $ 237,000 grant payment from Sloan  
    * Great quarter\! Ended with 396,800 in the bank  
  * Comparison shows data for previous year and previous quarter  
  * Q2 2024-Q4 2024 had a steady decrease, but have been seeing a steady increase since the beginning of 2025  
  * Grant funds  
    * Still have more income we are expecting from grants  
    * IMLS has been reinstated and we are receiving funds from that. Don’t know how long it will be active but are aggressively continuing work to receive as much as possible  
    * Howard subaward through Sloan has still not been paid. Sloan has been communicating with Howard to get the funds.   
    * MITRE award was canceled with federal changes. We forfeited the funds from that grant  
    * We have received 51% and expect to receive another 38%, the training 11% will not receive  
  * Forecast  
    * This is static \- approved in Q3 in the previous year  
    * This year we were very conservative with estimates, using last years income  
    * Q3 and Q4 150,00 in new grants for each quarter was added  
  * 2025 Forecast (based on cash forecast) is our more agile forecast  
    * Expenses are updated month to month and more accurately represents the funds we have  
      * Only shows funds we are contractually obligated  
    * Ending balances in Q2 and Q3 are significantly healthier than in the budget-baes forecast  
  * Next steps  
    * Submitted 1-pagers to 2 foundations through Sloan connections  
    * Launching new partnership model  
    * Continued membership.sponsorship outreach  
    * Scenario planning for possible further loss of funds  
  * Months operating expenses in bank over time graph \- this forecast the remaining 2 quarters for end of year, it will be well below 1?  
    * Correct, our current cash balance has us cash positive through November 2026  
      * Will be recouping our Struedel funds which makes our balance more positive through May 2026\. With the additional of SLoan funds, it makes us cash positive through November 2026  
    * Where is the line that triggers action (cut pay, etc.), the red alert?  
      * Revenue scenario planning created by Erin and Kari  
        * Scenario B (goal scenario)   
        * Plan is to increase outreach to new member orgs. Currently have an outreach team that contact between 5-10 member orgs each week. If we did not receive the NSF/Pose grant, we would increase outreach  
        * Kari and Erin look at this monthly  
        * The cutoff points are by date  
        * The strategies work around revenue generation, example: focusing on outreach and decreasing admin  
    * Does this assume nothing else is defunded?  
      * The only thing that could potentially be defunded is the IMLS grant which is much smaller (about 7,000/month). The remaining funds do not rely on grant funding  
      * With membership renewals we have considered concerns of flow-down effect of Universities as members. Have not had issues as of yet, but do understand that it could happen  
    * Is Erin duplicating her efforts in financials with all of the different meetings and conversations   
      * Finance situations are constantly changing. Have a weekly update of finances on a weekly basis. The finances are being updated constantly. Duplication of effort isn’t an issue.   
    * Has external community outreach been helpful at all?   
      * Regional coordinators from DACH (Germany, Switzerland, Austria) organised a community call for their region in German. Discussion on THe Carpentries, what the org is up against in terms of sustainability. They are working on building a consortium. May not see the fruit of that until next year because they are on a school year schedule. Do think the effects will be more long term.   
      * Have seen an uptick in donations since Rabea and Konrads call. The Forbes article  
    * Are there automated ways of reaching groups and making progress? Maybe platforms?  
      * We haven’t taken immediate strides toward that but are in the midst of signing a consulting agreement that will help with pricing and maybe marketing of our partnership model.   
      * Have an interview with a writer for science ([https://www.science.org/](https://www.science.org/)) that saw the Forbes article and wants to follow up

### Exec report  - Kari L. Jordan 

* Executive Director Updates  
  * 2020-2025 Strategic plan report is almost complete  
    * Will finish at CT retreat  
    * Board will review before publishing in Zenodo  
    * Please share once this is complete\!  
  * Finalised [key indicators for bridge strategic plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y0FIS1icirk5Ji_S-QTdktRfCUNxhmHYlrwewsw87Aw/edit?tab=t.0)  
    * Questions and Comments:  
      * Formalise a stable, sustainable revenue framework that prioritises flexibility and supports equity in communities with limited access to Carpentries programming.  
        * Metrics are good, but don’t measure the equity side  
        * This is ensuring we are offering free services for communities that don’t have access, etc. Kari will rewrite and make these things clear  
        * Do we want to add anything about running Carpentries offline?  
          * Unsure. We do highlight communities like these in goal 4\.   
          * Those with poor infrastructure might benefit more from communities like Carpentries offline.   
          * Will talk to the program committee and Janetta about their thoughts  
      * OKRs is a good structure for obtaining results. It adds a culture of aspiration. Might be something worth looking at as more of these are beginning to be built  
        * Using OKRs for the current strategic plan, but we did it retroactively. We had no idea when we were done or if we did what we said we’d do. This time around, from a culture perspective in the community, the conversation is the long-term impact. This is how the targets for formed. Open to looking at whether those for the bridge strategic plan could be better formed.   
        * As we are educating the community about where we are going, the metrics matter and everyone needs to be able to understand.   
    * Please continue looking at the doc and add your comments. The goal is to have the targets finalised in Q4 so the strategic plan can be implemented at the top of the year  
  * Navigation Fund  
    * New funder for The Carpentries  
    * Small grant to convene 5 open sourced projects around long-term sustainability and strategic alignment.: [Proposal: From Surviving to Thriving](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LMz9ULTvbb_GAbLQiebZCcDr-wm7pXVsxvOaZPiVX0g/edit?tab=t.0)  
    * Will convene in October at the CZI Open-Science meeting  
    * Will pitch a larger grant afterward to fund all of the orgs  
  * The Carpentries signed a letter of intent for the Metascience Alliance and is in the process of becoming an organizational member with US-RSE  
    * Why was US-RSE chosen instead of ReSA?  
      * US-RSE contacted the Carpentries to form a visible partnership  
  * The Carpentries has some fundraising campaigns for Day of Giving  
  * The Carpentries Partnership Model  
    * [Partnership Model Description (for Core Team)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ca1hieMjb4CwnQrDhpevaZ4riLGySrUTguwIF-3u7zo/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.b14ermysf8)  
    * Reinvisioning our membership model, a collaboration between the Core Team and the Carpentries community  
      * 1st \- what do we want to do, what does our community need?  
      * 2nd \- Project team led by Kari \- came up with recommendations  
      * 3rd \- implementation  
    * Will be transitioning between now and Q1 of 2026 from our membership program (fixed menu/set of choices)   
      * Found this doesn’t serve our longstanding members  
      * Feels very transactional, fee for service focused rather than relationship focused  
      * New partnership model will be de-jargoned  
        * Ways that we have talked about our current membership model imposes barriers for those who want to join the community  
          * Have to understand our terms and the way our community works before you can even become a member  
        * Expanding service-based discount  
          * Will emphasize in our conversations so that it is an expectation  
          * [Discount structure comms \- Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J-rMkbtybo__i7VCBrKspjqL4X-oNJlzJbJVbQEjRy4/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.q66cwj3qprm)  
        * Will expand our service offerings list  
          * Additional professional development skillups  
          * Restructuring Instructor training so it’s two parts, with teaching for the Carpentries and general teaching   
        * Packages will be flexible and fluid  
          * Will meet with Carpentries Core Team members to discuss needs and put a package together  
    * Questions and Comments  
      * How equitable is it to the current offering? Are institutions getting the same return on investment?  
        * We have a consultant who will be doing market research. They will give a lot of thought to alignment with the market but also what our primary target audience can afford. Do not yet have price-points, but we are keeping this in the forefront. The discounts will be a percentage, which will scale up with involvement. Will work closely with existing members to figure pricing out.   
      * Have you thought of additional values as you go up the tiers?  
        * We looked at what other orgs have taken as tiers \- did not find evidence that discounts would be an important motivator for orgs moving up to new tiers. Could talk at length about the research done on that.  
        * The only discount found that seem to have historical impact on our member org what discount type. Will make communications about discounts as simple as possible and lean into how it will strengthen the community. Have had bottlenecks on our programming because of the need for volunteers from the community to support.  
        * Don’t want to feel exclusionary to smaller organizations  
      * What is the actual impact on individuals and who do we want to bring in? Is it just the scientists or is there an admin who can take these courses as well?  
        * Target audiences for trainings and skill ups: [Training and Skill-Up Descriptions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VJXqtCqBUQPvfJGxPapQMnt6qyRO8dokA9calgdzsvA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.jgmha9vebtwb)  
      * Please leave additional ideas in the doc\!

### Standing Committee Reports - Committee Chairs 

* Audit Committee  
  * No report  
  * Finance Committee  
    * Drafted banking strategies and policies and an investment reserve policy for the committee to approve and review  
      * This is for huge lump sums of money we need to invest, what are policies for moving money between accounts, etc.  
      * Once review is final, the finance committee will vote before moving on to the full board  
      * You will have an opportunity to review information before the next meeting so a decision can be made during the meeting  
      * All docs are in the finance committee running notes at the top  
  * Governance and Personnel  
    * Recommended model for Kari’s pay treatment (priority)  
      * Created a draft rubric aligned with how this works for the rest of the org  
    * Board evaluation criteria  
    * Succession planning for all executive roles (Executive and Associate Directors)  
      * Does this require a vote?  
        * Will bring it to the Board  
    * Luke and Kari will continue meeting 1:1 to understand how to better support  
    * Would like to add a Board member who has general legal experience  
      * Legal council  
        * Having someone who can flag things would be helpful. Ex, when the decision to withdraw the NSF proposal came about, a lawyer could have given us a different strategy. What NSF did was actually illegal.  
      * To be compliant with bylaws \- 33% of Board members need to be elected directly from the community. We could do a call to the community to see if we have community members that have this expertise. We could also wait until next October to run both elections.   
        * Are there other options? Could it be someone who isn’t necessarily a Board member but could sit in on the meetings?  
          * Just signed a letter of engagement with a phenomenal law firm focusing on our  partnership model to ensure we are still doing non-profit activities and not pushing into a for-profit space. Kari and Erin would need to discuss what fees would be like but could look at that as an option.  
        * How have you historically dealt with legal support/recommendation for the org? Would a Board member be able to support the frequency we need for the Board?  
          * This is really for the one-off discussions where we need legal experience. In the past we have only used legal expertise for when we want to do things outside of the US. It’s hard to say how often we would need legal advice, but it feels like it’s something we need with the current climate.  
          * Are there some legal companies that may be able to help on a volunteer basis because of what is going on in the US?  
        * Do you have someone in mind if we went with a board elected?  
          * I do: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/syazback/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/syazback/)  
          * Kari has known her for years and she does a lot of fighting the system.  
        * If you have meetings with someone you are not paying, there may be a case where they can testify in court around anything said in a meeting.  
          * Will be very transparent about why we need legal expertise and expectations with the person coming on  
          * Still happy to consider other options  
        * How do we take opportunities to consider whether or not we have the right members/expertise on the Board? If we don’t, how do we reset and address that?  
          * This is the role of G\&P \- they will begin thinking about this. Erin and Kari can provide resources if needed.   
          * If there are specific business skills that we need, let Luke know  
        * Recommended Next Steps  
          * Budgeting to hire someone for legal services is a good idea, with the climate today. Would still be good to have someone on the Board who could tag things as we are having conversations. It is okay to bring advisors to each committee for conversations until a new member can be onboarded.  
          * For now having a Board Advisor might suffice. This person would not have a vote, they would only be an advisor. We would still be compliant with bylaws because of this. Kari will send a description of this role to G\&P to begin the process.   
          * Designing nominations that are skill-based for a governance: Pls request access- [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NHiLcF-ZgWTCxcKHo3vTMG5tC5xTJRS\_hC4L67EN2pk/edit?tab=t.0\#heading=h.hf9hmbqr1d3x](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NHiLcF-ZgWTCxcKHo3vTMG5tC5xTJRS_hC4L67EN2pk/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.hf9hmbqr1d3x)  
  * Program Committee  
    * Been doing a lot of asynch work \- meeting is a challenge  
      * Discussion on quarterly review of the strategic plan  
      * Details can be found in [the running notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k8SAUiKLgcCv8Vo0xloOy91qbLmUGQNDj_BSIVR2lH0/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.b8ww5rwvym97)  
    * Every term there is a different desire for asynch communication  
      * Depending on Board members skill level with the different communication apps  
      * Slack channels can be created for this Board if that is of interest  
        * Yes \- agreement that this would be good  
        * Expectations for Slack:  
          * Board members are across the world so you shouldn’t expect immediate response  
          * You will still need to read the notes, etc.  
          * Pin the running notes and other important docs to the channel so they are easily accessible  
      * Expectations for backups for committee chairs  
        * If you can’t make a meeting, please designate someone as your backup to run the meeting



### Adjournment
