# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes for Q1 2026-02-05

## **Present on 2026-02-05**: 

Yo, Stephanie, Phil, Pao, Sam, Erin, Mark, Eboni, Yani, Jannetta, Nisha, Kari, Danielle

## Minutes for Agenda Items:

### Call to Order
- Phil called the meeting to order
- Purpose and outcomes
= Agenda Review

### Consent Agenda (10 minutes)  
  * Should anything be removed for consideration?  
    * Executive Compensation Policy  
      * Percentages did not align in the examples, Pao recalculated and they have been updated  
        * No action needed  
      * The Board can still recommend 0% as a percentage for a raise. This has been updated as well and needs no action  
    * Adopting HPC as a lesson program  
      * The incubation period is up and it came to review  
      * Questions arose about personalization of content. These were addressed and the application has been approved for it to become a lesson program  
      * The Board will vote today whether or not it should go through under the umbrella of the consent agenda  
      * Staff has been preparing for this and has a roadmap for implementation of a new lesson program from an infrastructure perspective  
    * A motion has been made to approve the consent agenda  
      * Motion made: Phil  
      * Second: Yo  
      * All in favor, motion passes by consensus

* **Generative and Strategic Discussions** (45-60 minutes)  
  * Board’s role in financial sustainability  
    * Framing and context  
      * The funding environment has become very competitive over the past year and we’re always in danger of short fall  
        * Grants that fund operating costs are hard to find  
      * Pulling internal levers has been the CT the typical response  
        * Financial involvement of the community  
        * Grants being written  
        * Cutting operating costs to be as slim as possible  
      * One lever that has not been pulled is Board responsibility  
        * Can do this through resource generation  
        * It is common in the US that Boards have a financial obligation to the organization  
        * Can be hands off  
          * Is the budget reasonable?  
          * Are there enough volunteers?  
        * Some Boards have heavy   
          * Guaranteed giving, punitive action for not meeting goals, etc  
        * Goal for this conversation: shared values, alignment, and stewardship to the Carpentries  
          * financial stewardship deliverables that fit this Board realistically, but not in a way that’s overwhelming  
          * What ideas do we have as a Board that are in reach for this Board?  
    * Board discussion: 
      * Agreements:   
        * Steer away from specific strategic strategies (ie. a bake sale)  
        * Focus on different experiences  
        * Think of the Board's financial stewardship symbiotic negotiation \- how the sharing of resources help both the Board and The Carpentries thrive  
        * Should not make individuals feel like they need to step down from the Board  
      * Concerns:   
        * Want to make sure the contributions made are a good use of time for individuals. Especially those who have their own org they need to raise money for and would hire someone to do this for them.  
          * We don’t need to go out and fundraise. Many of us were not brought in specifically because of money raising skills, etc.  
          * The example of being able to pay someone to raise funds, is a great suggestion  
        * Some Board members are leveraging their current partnerships to help The Carpentries already \- opening networks that could potentially help with financial contributions   
          * Many Board members are not in a position to contribute financially to the Board \- would not want to make that mandatory   
          * Volunteering, speaking about the Carpentries at social junctures, networking \- are all parts of being stewards  
        * How can we increase general access to resources? What are we able to do, what’s in our power?  
        * If we have a way of telling incoming Board members of how we are being stewards to The Carpentries \- that is a great outcome of this conversation.  
      * This is an uncomfortable but useful conversation \- we are can see the differences in expectations  
      * What is the scale of what we need? If we had no incoming grant money, how much would we need to raise annually from other resources to continue and thrive?  
      * Can we have a concise representation of what the problem we are trying to solve in this meeting, in 2026, in 5 years?  
      * Would like to think about tactics at some point.  
      * Explicitly, today, what does the Board think the Board's *expectations* are?  
      * Traditionally, wealthy people are on Boards, allowing them to give financially. If this is what we need, a lot of people will be left out. A diverse Board will not allow for every member to give the same resource.  
      * This is causing a culture shock in our current conversation and everyone is reacting to that. We are having a hard time having this conversation without talking tactics  
      * May be helpful to talk about what each Board member is already doing, to allow other Board members to see what ideas we can give to this conversation.  
      * Purpose: what is The Carpentries culture?  
      * What problem are we solving?  
        * Many Board members have asked what the Carpentries needs from them and what more they could be doing. The purpose of the conversation is to answer that question.  
        * The Board has a responsibility to the sustainability of the org. How can you help with that? Or how are you already?  
        * Developing this culture and being able to describe it is important because we have elections coming up. We need to be able to describe to incoming members what it means to be able to sit on the Board. How does the Board support the org and the Executive Director?  
        * **ACTIVITY: What are we currently doing to steward the resources of the Carpentries**  
          * Notes in doc  
      * A motion was made to extend the session for 10 minutes  
        * Motion made: Phil  
        * Second: Yo  
      * Embassadorship Carpentries values come naturally  
      * There are items many Board members are saying they wish they did better  
      * Is there someone in mind for the Board Advisor role?  
        * Not currently. Want to have someone who can be a thought partner for multiple issues.  
        * If the Board wants an advisor who is a funder \- can focus on that  
    * Key takeaways or guidance  
      * Strength in ambassadorship  
      * Messaging (resources) would help Board members advocate better for The Carpentries  
      * Continue this discussion (including tactics?) at the BoD retreat  
      * We are a very unique organization\!
### Executive Session (15 minutes)
- Motion made regarding COLA: Phil, Seconded: Pao. 
- Motion passed

#### Preview of Upcoming Board Work (5 minutes)
- 2026 Board of Directors Work Plan
    - Plan to discuss with your committees if you have not already
    - Questions: N/A


### Adjournment
