## Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting February 28, 2022 (Q1)

Minutes from The Carpentries Executive Council (EC) meeting February 28, 2022.

Present: Sarah Stevens, Aleksandra Nenadic, Michael Smith, Kari Jordan, John Chodacki, Konrad Förstner, Annajiat Alim Rasel, Masami Yamaguchi, Amel Ghouila

Apologies: Yanina Bellini Saibene 


### Agenda item 22/1: Approving minutes from the EC December 2021 meeting



* [EC meeting minutes from December 2021](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/blob/main/minutes/2021/EC-minutes-2021-12-21.md)
* Some decisions around the process of approving the minutes were clarified
    * It was noted that the EC member who made the motion to approve the meeting minutes should be recorded in the minutes 
    * If an EC member was not present at the meeting the minutes are being approved for, they do not need to vote
* **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Voting:</span> I move to approve the minutes from the December 2021 meeting of the Executive Council with edits. Maker: EC Chair Stevens, Second: EC Member Smith. Motion passes (6 yes, 0 no, 2 abstained).**


### Agenda item 22/2: Review of the Carpentries Q4 2021 financial report



* Talisha Sutton-Kennedy, Operations Manager from the Core Team, presented The Carpenties financial report for Q4 2021 (October through December 2021).
* Income was way above expectations, expenses came in slightly over budget. 
    * ~$637000 was budgeted as income but the Core Team ended up bringing in $1.8 million, 289% of the projected budget.
    * This income increase was due to two additional grants that were signed towards the end of 2021
    * Expenses were budgeted at ~$570000 and those came in just a little bit above what was estimated at ~$650000, which is really good.
* The Carpentries is in a good financial position for 2022 with the overall bank balance at  ~$2.3 million at the end of Q4 2021.
    * The funds currently available in the bank can support The Carpentries Core Team for a further 14 months if there was no additional income brought in.
* There was a question from the Executive Council on how long does it usually take to receive a grant on average? 
    * Grants usually disburse funds about a month before the work is anticipated to begin. Some are dispersed earlier, depending on the grant. Also some of the grants disburse funds for two years upfront whereas other grants will disperse funds for only one year (at a time).


### Agenda item 22/3: Selection of the new Executive Council Officers and approving the standing committees members for 2022

The following list the current members of the EC Officers Committee and other EC standing committees that were put forward for approval.

Officers Committee



* Sarah Stevens (Chair)
* Konrad Förstner (Vice Chair)
* Michael Smith (Treasurer)
* Aleksandra Nenadic (Secretary)

Governance Committee



* Konrad Förstner (Committee Chair)
* Annajiat Alim Rasel
* Yanina Bellini Saibene
* Amel Ghouila

Finance Committee



* Michael Smith (Committee Chair)
* John Chodacki
* Masami Yamaguchi

Communications Committee



* Masami Yamaguchi (Committee Chair)
* Yanina Bellini Saibene
* Omar Khan (Core Team member)

Program Committee



* Amel Ghouila (Committee Chair)
* Annajiat Alim Rasel
* Aleksandra Nenadic
* Sarah Stevens

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Voting</span>: I move to approve the proposed Executive Council Officers. Maker: EC Chair Stevens, Second: John Chodacki. Motion passes (8 yes, 0 no, 0 abstained)**

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Voting</span>: I move to approve the Executive Council Standing Committee composition. Maker: EC Chair Stevens, Second: EC Vice Chair Forstner. Motion passes (8 yes, 0 no, 0 abstained)**


### Agenda item 22/4: Selection of the Executive Council Liaison to the Code of Conduct Committee (CoCC)



* Trying to get at least one EC member to act as a liaison with the CoCC. The question was raised if the EC should have two members acting as liaisons but it was decided that for the time being we are looking for just one.
* Annajiat Alim Rasel, the EC member, volunteered to be the liaison as he is also the current member of the CoCC. It was pointed out that there may be a conflict of interest for an EC member also serving as an CoCC member:
    * The CoCC is a separate body doing the actual work; a member of CoCC would  go through all of the incident responses and they'd form part of the incident Response Group and be deeply involved with the resolutions that come out of potential incidents whereas the EC liaison person is the connection between the the EC and the CoCC relaying information back and forth and not so much involved in the day to day running of the committee, they would summarise the meetings of the CoCC to the EC in case there are concerns that the EC needs to be aware of. 
    * There was an agreement among the EC members that there is a conflict of interest and that Annajiat could not be a CoCC member while on the EC. Annajiat decided to switch to the role of the EC CoCC liaison and leave the CoCC.
* As a conclusion, the EC will at the moment only have one member acting as a liaison officer to the CoCC, and the CoCC will have to find a replacement for Annajiat.


### Agenda item 22/5: Decide upon annual goals for the new Executive Council 



* Governance Committee: 
    * Parliamentary procedures for EC meetings
    * [Committee Policy](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/committee-policy.html) update in the Handbook and [Bylaws](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/bylaws.html) revision (due in 2022)
    * Some updates to the Committee Policy (that the Programme Committee has been tasked with) require changes in the Bylaws section too so will have to be coordinated between the Programme Committee and the Governance Committee, which is responsible for the Bylaws update.
    * Important to note that the biggest piece of work this year is the Bylaws update (which happens every two years) - while this is the responsibility of the Governance Committee, it will touch every officer and member and committee, and will be a group effort.
* Finance Committee 
    * Developing the long-term financial sustainability model that will very much help us if we have more finances. This will very much help us have a better reach along with the improvements on accessibility  that the Core Team is working on (helping with accessibility of the website and curriculum).
* Communications Committee
    * The main goal is to enhance The Carpentries public image. While there isn't a specific goal at the moment, the Core Team have released a [revised logo-use policy](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/resources/logos.html) for communities that want to adapt The Carpentries name and logo for their own use. The Core Team could really use the EC support, in making sure local communities are aware the policy has been revised and that it exists, but also do not want to make local communities feel like they aren't part of the Carpentries if they aren't in alignment with the latest policy. [Community discussions](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/02/carpentries-logo-policy-changes/) are also scheduled around this issue. 
    * There will be things to report on as the EC members meet in their respective standing committees throughout the year and make progress on issues and targets.


### Agenda item 22/6: Thoughts on the New EC Meeting Structure



* The new meeting structure includes quarterly meetings of the EC lasting 1.5 hour, instead of monthly 1-hour meetings. The work of the EC in between the meetings is conducted through the standing committees, which will continue to meet monthly. 
* The slides have been prepared and shared ahead of the meeting, to allow EC members who are not present to out their views and comments across 
* The meetings are recorded and transcribed automatically by Zoom
* There was an overwhelming sense that the EC members liked the new meeting format


### Agenda item 22/7: Updates from the Executive Director 



* Operational priorities for 2022: 
    * Invest in equity, inclusion and accessibility
        * Hiring an Accessibility Coordinator
    * Overhaul of the [carpentries.org](https://carpentries.org/) website
        * Developing an infrastructure for The Carpentries to support the community
        * In honour of our values around transparency we want to make it obvious to the Core Team where we are headed and how the Core Team members can advance within The Carpentries
    * Develop business model for long-term sustainability of The Organisation
        * Looking to develop a plan for long term sustainability not dependant on grants
        * Director of Fundraising position will be vital for this goal
* Blog posts and announcements
    * [Changes to The Carpentries Logo Usage and Modification Policy](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/02/carpentries-logo-policy-changes/)
        * We want brand recognition because we want The Carpentries name to be truly recognised, so we want to be strict about how it is being shared across the globe
        * Bringing the community into this policy so that we can help them bring their logo into alignment with our policy
        * 2 community sessions on this (there will be a recording of the presentation)
* An opening for a developer to help with the infrastructure. Staffing is difficult because of financial constraints.
* Piloting of the new program for open and peer review of lessons (for the inclusion of lessons in the [Carpentries Lab](https://carpentries-lab.org/) via the Carpentry Lab grant and the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/))
    * Open peer review in partnership with the Journal of Open Source Education, so this is a phenomenal opportunity for The Carpentries to be connected to a peer reviewed journal, and also to give our Community members true recognition for their contributions.
* Updates to The Carpentries Privacy Policy 
    * In alignment with the general data protection regulations and also the California customer Privacy Act, the CCP.
    * To make sure that members have all updated their profiles and that they've opted into all the things they want to hear about.
* Upcoming Meetings and Collaborations
    * Executive Team Retreat - goal is to identify functional competencies for long range organisational strategy, in Gainesville, Florida
        * Attended by Executive Director Kari Jordan, Associate Director Erin Becker and François Michonneau, Senior Director of Technology
    * Equity Council Summit, in Chicago, Illinois
        * Formed as part of the Sloan Grant
        * Developed recommendations to modify instructor training curriculum for inclusivity 
        * Develop protocol for focus groups
        * Draft project outcome dissemination plan
    * Core Team Retreat - March 6-11, 2022 
        * 3 satellite retreats - Portland, Frankfurt, Pittsburgh
        * Team building and strategic planning
* DEI Education Consulting
    * Through our diversity and inclusion grant with the Chan Zuckerberg initiative we're going to be onboarding the diversity equity and inclusion consultant to help us streamline our roadmap for equity and inclusion, to develop some training for our team leads on equity and inclusion, and then to create a role and accessibility toolkit for instructors and community leaders.


### Agenda item 22/8: Executive Council Retreat 



* Initial poll for opinions on having a face-to-face EC retreat
* Proposal: 4 days in June in one of 5 locations - Portugal, Spain, UK, US or Switzerland 
