### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting July 18, 2019 {#minutes-carpentries-executive-council-meeting-july-18-2019}

**19/ 43 EC Roles & Responsibilities document and EC communications** -- [issue 30](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/30) 

**19/44 Selection of Executive Council Members for 2x2 Committee** -- [issue 14](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/14) 

Committee proposal, the idea here is to pull 2 people form staff, Executive Council and each Lesson Program. This is relevant given the heterogeneity. Library Carpentry focused on their structure, they need a formal way to communicate with us. Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry not exactly the same need

**19/45 Report back from Tracy on Stanford ACT meeting** -- [issue 56](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/56) 

One of our issues focused on idea around sponsorship. Amy noted that ACT can support non profits

- Meeting took place 17 July 2019

- In September, they put together a prospectus on us and then distribute to see who would volunteer on our project for ACT

- 6 months that they would help us.

- 5-7 people involved

- Talk to us primarily in person.

- Q4 and Q1

- Would help us on branding, business models, vision, strategic planning etc

- Great resource, Amy and Tracy will submit the second round application

- Along that line about the strategic planning this Executive Council has had a lot of focus on procedural

- Must the Executive Council have strategic planning in preparation for the ACT discussions?

  - strategic planning will be a key part of the ACT discussions.
  - We expect a lot of tasks to come from the ACT program; these could form the basis for the in-person meeting.
  - Part of the reason that we did not engage with strategic planning was that we were not unsure how to approach this.
  - We should think about how the procedures that we developed (for example, the 2x2 committee) tie into the strategic plan and how the intended plan reflects our values.
  - Where are the gaps in the work that we have been doing?
  - There are some things that we could relate to some of the larger issues
  - We need to do a lot of work in order to do strategic planning.
  - What we can be doing now is to gather things that would form part of the Strategic planning.

  **19/46 Update on Chan Zuckerberg Initiative proposals **

  Moore foundation

  - Process has been slow
  - Chris Mentzel, lead of the data driven discovery program at Moore that has funded us, will be leaving Moore and will hand over to someone else.
  - Still interested but time-line is uncertain
  - Question - Status update whether we would have funding for the in-person meeting?
  - Josh Greenberg at Sloan indicated we might be able to submit a proposal for a grant for the in-person meeting
  - Comment on how decisions are made with regard to submitting new grant proposals and, in particular, writing these so that they include new staff as opposed to funding existing staff.
  - Trying to balance that in the proposals, we cannot only write proposals to keep bringing on new people. We need to write in current staff time as well.
    - There is some overlap in some of the proposals so that say a technical person would be able to assist in other parts of the organization as well.
    - We need to focus on our core operations being sustainable
    - We have a lot of the same problems that open source software has.

  **19/47 Minutes and Agenda Responsibilities **

  [February minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/44)

  - [May minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/45)
  - June minutes?

  **19/48 Election planning** -- [issue 61](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/61) 

  - Key part - Executive Council roles document is very important we need to have that all setup so that it is available for community / council elected positions
  - Announcement of the election, in that issue Tracy has a Google Drive folder so that we can have it there to see how other groups handle call for nominations
    - We need to optimize the process for the next election
    - Action item: Executive Council  to read through the election process.
      - Recruitment for council elected positions, we may need to communicate outside of our immediate community
      - We need to remind ourselves whose terms are up this year
      - Action item - create a document  / [issue](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/68) tracking who is elected, rotation policy etc.
        - Who is council
        - Who is community
        - Who is at the end of their term
        - Separate doc of people / skills that we need to recruit
      - Experience working on a board, working with an open source community, consider who may need to be approached to get involved. 
      - We do not want to wait too long to talk about people because this must be done before October.
      - Note on issue regarding updating the website
        - May provide clarity on the status, so a PR for the web page would be good.
        - Sarah will be contacted by Tracy to do the updates.

  
