### Minutes Carpentries Executive Council meeting May 16, 2019 {#minutes-carpentries-executive-council-meeting-may-16-2019}



**19/30 Budget Report**

It was explained how the budget works and provided figures for 2018. 
Community Initiatives requires 3 months of operation in the bank. Tracy is in communication with them about this. They share some concern but they trust us to resolve this. They didn't provide a lot of support. Tracy is very welcome to ideas and suggestions.

This happened because their system to notify people about the 3 months failed. 

Next steps: operational efficiency, revenue generation and accessibility. We can't cut most of our costs so we are trying to increase revenue.

**19/31 2 x 2 Committee**

  Moved to next meeting.

**19/32 Responding to on-line negative comments**

We have a question about how The Carpentries should address things that happen in our broader community but not in our spaces. We had two incidents that didn't happen in our spaces. We did take action regarding one of the events (re: DataCamp) because we had previously recommended them to our community. We did not take action regarding the other issue. How will we address issues and respond to issues that arise among members in our community when these are not related to our events or spaces? Proposal was made to designate a task force to review what situations will be referred for Code of Conduct Committee review. Karen has agreed to draft a charter for the task force. 
 **ACTION**: Karen will create a draft of the charter.
 
**19/33 Sponsorship Program**

The short version is that we should make a distinction between sponsorship versus membership. We also need to consider how we would support sponsors in other countries. It was clarified that we don't need to deliver or provide anything to sponsors. 
**ACTION**: Raniere to formalise the charter. 
**MOTION**: [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/12](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/issues/12)

**19/34 Code of Conduct Liaison (CoC) issue**

Should the Executive Council Liaison have voting rights on CoC resolutions? And should the Executive Council Liaison have voting rights on non-CoC resolutions decision? How can someone escalate an incident? We have documentation.
It was  mentioned to have the Liaison as tie breaker and as rule makers, should not vote. This is a division of power. I was also suggested to have one decision until the review of the CoC operation is finalized.
**MOTION**: [https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/60](https://github.com/carpentries-ec/conversations_ec_ed/issues/60)

 **19/35 Minutes **

   a. Our last public minutes to be posted is from January

   b.  March minutes need approval: [issue #42](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/42)

   c. April minutes need approval: [issue #43](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council/issues/43)

      
